###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 3 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Pupils as a class should be able to: -Answer questions on some topics from previous terms
Week: 2
Topic: Description of national symbols – National map -Coat arm -National anthem -National Pledge
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. descibe the significance of each national symbols e.g. The eagle in the coat of arm represent strength -The green colour of the national flag stands for agriculture ii. recite the National anthem and National pledge
Week: 3
Topic: Description of national symbols -The coat of arms
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the feature of the coat of arm ii. discuss and describe what each features of the coat of am represents
Week: 4
Topic: The need for constituted authority of law and order -Protection of rights and dignity
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning constituted authority’ ii. analyze the need for constituted authority iii. highlight ere imporunce of constituted
Week: 5
Topic: Difference between national symbol and other symbol e.g national symbols are for the entire country while other symbols are for group/organtzation
Objectives: Pupns should be able m: i. Identify the importance of national symbols in the country ii. differentiate between national symbols and other symbols iii. draw the Nigeria national flag correctly
Week: 6
Topic: Respecting national symbols e. g stand attention
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. discuss the importancc of respecting the national symbols ii. recite the National anthcm and National pledge correctly iii. demonstrate the respect for national symbols
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Highway codes
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of highway codes ii. identify simple highway codes iii. Identify the importance of highway codes
Week: 9
Topic: Highway codes Contd
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain in details the simple highway codes ii. demostrate ways to take caution when crossing the road
Week: 10
Topic: Respecting other symbols Traditional leaders, staff of office, religious leaders, highway codes
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. identify other symbols that can be respected ii. describe who religious leaders and traditional leaders are. iii. explain the meaning of staff of office
Week: 11
Topic: Respecting other national symbols e.g. -National anthem -The constitution -National -currency -Maze •National -Assembly
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. demonstrate respect for national symbols e.g. stand at attention ii. highlight Other symbols that can be respected. iii. discuss what the maze represents
Week: 12
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
