###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 6 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of last term’s work readiness qest/ concept of national values
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Types of values that promotes peace
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Mention and explain at least Five (5) types of values that promote peace. Honesty, Tolerance, Respect. 2. Explain types of national value that promotes peace 3. demonstrate
Week: 3
Topic: Continuation of (wk3) -Types of values that promote peace
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Mention: -Self-control, -Moderation, -Comprotment 2. Explain national values that promotes peace 3. Bring out the benefit of having values
Week: 4
Topic: -Concept of cooperation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Explain the 2. Meaning of cooperation 3. Mention the attribute of cooperation 4. Describe the attribute of cooperation. -Communal efforts -Shared responsibilities -Willingness to assist -National unity
Week: 5
Topic: Concept of tolerance.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define tolerance 2. Demonstrate tolerance 3. Identify characteristics of tolerance
Week: 6
Topic: -Concept of forgiveness
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define forgiveness 2. Mention attributes of forgiveness 3. Explain attributes of forgiveness
Week: 7
Topic: Mid Term Break
Objectives: 
Week: 8
Topic: Concept of Self control
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Explain the meaning of self-control 2. Highlight characteristics of self-control 3. Demonstrate self-control
Week: 9
Topic: Concept of moderation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define moderation 2. Explain the meaning of moderation 3. State the characteristics of moderation
Week: 10
Topic: Concept of Compassion.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Explain compassion 2. Identify characteristics of compassion 3. Demonstrate characteristics of compassion 4. describe how govemment policy can solve the problem of disunity
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 12-13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: 
