###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 2 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision/importance of civic education
Objectives: Pupils should be able to i. discuss some topics taught last term ii.explain civic eduaction and the importance of civic education iii. identify the advantage of civic education
Week: 2
Topic: Why study civic education
Objectives: Pupils should be able to i. explain civic education ii. identify the reason for the study of civic educatiion iii. discuss the reason why they study civic education at school
Week: 3-4
Topic: Component of civic Educadon -Right and duties Democratic practices Community -Values
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain component of civic educaåon ii. Identify component of civic educadon iii. Describe where and how civic education take place
Week: 5
Topic: Importance of Civic Eduaction to development
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i.discuss the importance of civic education to national development ii. discuss and describe the institution of government democratic process iii. identify acquired skills for national development
Week: 6
Topic: Importance of Civic Eduaction to development. contd. Civic engagement in the political, social and economic process
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. highlightt the importance of civic education to national development ii. explain the role of civic education in political process iii.social process-economic process iv. identify the importance of having political leaders in the society
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Honesty -meaning -the imporatnce of telling the truth always -reward of honesty e.g praise, gift, promotion etc. – punishment of dishonesty e.g shame, beating, disgrace etc.
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to i. explain the meaning of honesty ii. identify the importance of telling the truth always iii. outline the reward of honesty iv. describe the punishment of dishonesty
Week: 9
Topic: Courtesy, politeness and etiquette -meaning -treating other people with courtesy and proper behavior in the street, buses, trains and queues
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Identify their roles in the society as regarding courtesy and politeness ii. Outline ways to be responsible in the public
Week: 10
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
