###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 4 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of Last Term Work/ Readiness Test -National Values
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Meaning of National Values
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Discuss the meaning of National Values ii. Explain what values are iii. Demonstrate examples of national values. (1 Obedience (2.) Loyalty (3.) Dedication (4.) Honesty etc.
Week: 3
Topic: Types ef National Values e.g Civil Values
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Identify at least four types of National Values ii. Describe each of the types of values. e Analyze examples of civil values E.g. Obedience Dedication
Week: 4
Topic: Importance of Natuonal values
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Highlight the impottance of National Values. ii. Analyze the need to imbibe values in the society iii. Debate the importance of national value
Week: 5
Topic: Characteristics of National values
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Outline the characteristics of National Values 1. Loyalty 2. Co-operation 3. Humility ii. Explain the characteristics of national values iii. Demonstrate characteristics of national values
Week: 6
Topic: Meaning of a nation e A body of people sharing a spirit of unity
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of a nation using relevant resources ii. Identify some nations of the world iii. Locate their nation in the map of the world
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Characteristics of a Nation e.g. -Common territory -Common customs and tradition e -Common language (understanding each other)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Identify the characteristics of a nation ii. Explain various characteristics of a nation e.g.. Common customs, common territory, common language iii. Indicate on a map some of the characteristics e.g. States that share territories
Week: 9
Topic: Reasons why wo should build our Nation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be ablo to: i. Identify the reasons why wo should build our nation ii. Discuss why we should build our nation e.g. For peaceful co-existence -For common use of resources -To benefit from one another -To unite against exits and aggression -To provide a framework for social order iii. Justify why we need to build our nation
Week: 10
Topic: Duties and Responsibilities of parents and children in building the Nation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain using a diagram the family tree ii. Highlight the duties of parents in building a nation iii. Identify the duties of children in building a Nation
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
