###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 1 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readiness test / Meaning Of civic education: -Why we study Civic Education
Objectives: By the end of the lesson,pupils should be able to: i. explain what is meant by Civic Education: ii. highlight reasons why we study Civic Education; iii. outline democratic activities and civic right and responsibilities.
Week: 2
Topic: -Ways through which civic education can be important at school • Rights ofa child •Rights of a citizen
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify simple ways through which Civic Education can be important at school; ii. outline some of the rights of a child; iii. describe some of the rights of a citizen.
Week: 3
Topic: Ways through which Civic Education can be important at home.
Objectives: By the end of the class, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of civic education; ii. identify the importance of civic education; iii. highlights four ways through which Civic Education can be important at home.
Week: 4
Topic: Ways through which Civic education can be important. – The media
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain what media is; ii. outline four ways through which civic education can be important to the media.
Week: 5
Topic: Other ways through which Civic education can be important to the society.
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the menaning of society; ii. outline the impotance of civic education to the society; iii. identify other ways which Civic Education can be important in the society.
Week: 6
Topic: -Patriotism -Tolerance -Co-operation -Honesty -Self reliance
Objectives: Pupils should be able to i.explain the following -Patriotism -Tolerance -C0-operation ii. Explain honesty as a good virtue; iii. Describe self -reliance.
Week: 7
Topic: MIDTERM TEST/BREAK
Objectives: MIDTERM TEST/BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Values that show good morals in our society -Meaning of morals
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of right and duties; ii. Differentiate between rights and duties of citizens in the society; iii. Identify the importance of right and duties of citizens in the society
Week: 9
Topic: Public Enlightenment -HIV/AIDS -Drug abuse and its hazard.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. importance of HIV/AIDS education; ii. highlight various ways to prevent HIV/AIDS; iii. discuss the meaning of drug abuse as part of Public enlightenment campaign; iv. identify the hazard of drug abuse.
Week: 10
Topic: Values that show Bad Morals in our society -examples of morals to show what is wrong e.g. stealing, bullying, fighting, lying etc.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. list at least five bad morals in the society; ii. state the consequences of bad morals and how to curb it.
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
