###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 4 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: -Definition of Governance -Meaning of Good Governance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain governance ii. Discuss the meaning of good governance iii. Demonstrate good governance in the community.
Week: 2
Topic: Types of Governance e.g. -Democratic governance -Economic and Financial governance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Identify types of Governances ii. Explain the types of Governance iii. Analyses The Features of Good Governance.
Week: 3
Topic: What is Governance Structure?
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain Governance Structure ii. Highlight examples of Governance Structure iii. Draw a Chart illustrating Government Structure.
Week: 4
Topic: Characteristics of Good Governance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Outline Characteristics of Good Governance 1. Openness/Transparency
Week: 5
Topic: -Definition of Govemment and -Types of Govemment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain Government ii. Highlight types of Government iii. Analyze the types of Government.
Week: 6
Topic: Arms of Governments: -Legislative -Executive -Judiciary
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Highlight the arms of Government ii. Draw a Chart showing Legislative, Executive and Judiciary
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Forms of Government
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Outline at least five functions performed by Government e.g. Provision of good roads; Provision of pipe borne water; Provision of Schools; Provision of Electricity; Provision of Health Clinics; 2. Explain the Functions of Government 3. Describe how the government functions affects them e.g. Schooling
Week: 9
Topic: Difference between the various types of Governments.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Highlight the differences between various types of Government ii. Explain the differences between various types of Government iii. Analyze some of the similarities between Various types of Government.
Week: 10
Topic: Problems Facing Government
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should bo ablo to: 1 . Outline some of the problems facing Federal Government, State Government, Local Government 2. Analyze the Problem facing Govemment 3. Suggest some of the solutions to some of the problems facing the govemment
Week: 11
Topic: Solution to Problem Facing Govemment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Identify three solutions to problems facing government ii. Explain solutions to problem facing government iii. Discuss ways bribery and corruption can be stopped
Week: 12-13
Topic: REVISION & EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION & EXAMINATION
