###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 4 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of Second term Work/ Readiness test
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Meaning of Ethnicity
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of Ethnicity ii. Analyze the problem of ethnicity in Nigeria iii. Mention different ethnic groups in Nigeria
Week: 3
Topic: Causes of Ethnicity
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Highlight at least Five causes of ethnicity -Economic reason -Political reason -Tribalism 2. Explain the causes of Ethnicity 3. Debate the causes of Ethnicity
Week: 4
Topic: Consequences of Ethnicity E.g. Communal conflicts, Political violence, Nepotism.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Itemize the consequences Of Ethnicity ii. Explain the consequences of Ethnicity iii. Justify the consequences of Ethnicity.
Week: 5
Topic: Solution to Ethnicity
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Mention how to solve the problems of Ethnicity ii. Explain how to solve the problem of Ethnicity
Week: 6
Topic: Duties of Community leaders jn ensuring peaceful co -existence between ethnic groups
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of peaceful co-existence ii. Highlight the duties of community leaders in ensuring peaceful co-existence iii. Analyze the duties of community leaders.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Tribalism and Ethnicity
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain identity ii. Analyze the meaning of Tribalism
Week: 9
Topic: Similarities Ethnicity and Tribalism
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Identify the similarities between ethnicity and tribalism ii. Distinguish between ethnicity and tribalism iii. Describe some tribal intolerance in Nigeria
Week: 10
Topic: Similarities between ethnicity and Tribalism (PROJECT)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Identify the similarities between ethnicity and tribalism ii. Describe the different tribes
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
