###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 3 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of First Term’s Work/First Term Examination Questions
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: -Answer some questions from last term topics through revision done with them by the teacher
Week: 2
Topic: National Identity -Meaning of National Identity -Element of naåonal Identity
Objectives: Pupils should be able to; i. Explain community ii. Analyze the types of community iii. Highlight various types of community
Week: 3
Topic: Elements of National Identity -National Anthem -National Pledge -National Currency -Nigerian Passport etc -Working for the success of the nation -Payment of taxes
Objectives: Pupils should be able to; i. explain the meaning of National Identiti ii.elements of national identity iii. recite the national anthem
Week: 4
Topic: Elements of national Identity (Contd)
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Identify the elements of national identity, ii. highlight the examples Of element of national identity. iii. recite the National pledge
Week: 5
Topic: Patriotism -Meaning of patriotism -How to show patriotism. e.g. Promoting our civic responsibilities
Objectives: Pupils should be able to; i. explain patriotism ii. demonstrate and explain how to show patriotism iii. analyze ways to promote our civic responsibilities
Week: 6
Topic: Reasons why Nigerians should be patriotic -To promote unity -To promote development -To ensure full and proper use of resources -To help the nation benefit from our knowledge and skills
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. highlight the reasons for patriotism. ii. explain ways to promote unity in class and at home iii. discuss ways the nation can benefit from our knowledge and skills
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Reasons for patriotism (contd.) -Consequences of not being patriotic as a nation -Benefits of being patriotic as a nation
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Identify the consequences of not being patriotic as a nation ii. discus some of the consequences. iii. explain some of the benefits of being patriotic as a nation.
Week: 9
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 10
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
