###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 1 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of last term work/ first term examination questions
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. recall some of the last term work during revision done with them by the teacher.
Week: 2
Topic: Rules and Regulations -Meaning – Importance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain in details what is meant by regulations; ii. highlight and expertiate on specific examples of rules and regulations iii. create their own classroom rules with the help of their teacher;
Week: 3
Topic: Gains Of obeying -Rules and -Regulations -Love by elders Gift from elders and friends -Praise reward from famil and constitute authority,
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain what is meant by gains ii.highlight at least six gains of obeying the rules and regulations
Week: 4
Topic: Result of Disobeying Rules and Regulations – Unhappiness -Punishment -Denial of rivile es Rejection y ove ones
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain what it means to be disobedient ii. highlight results of disobeying rules and regulations iii. analyze the results of disobe in rules and regulations.
Week: 5
Topic: Importance of school Rules and Regulations
Objectives: By the end of the lesson , pupils be able to: i. memorize their school rules and regulations recite and explain their school rules and regulations.
Week: 6
Topic: Why Rules and Regulations are necessary -To protect life and -To promote peace and progress -To guide our behaviors at home, school and in public places.
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Identify at least four importance of rules and regulations ii. Explain two importance of the rules and regulations identified above
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM TEST/MIDTERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM TEST/MIDTERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Result of not obeying Govemment Rules and Regulations. Imprisonment,Pay ment offlnes etc
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain what government rules are; ii. discuss various reasons for the government rules and regulations; iii. highlight at least two results of not obeying government rules and regulatons.
Week: 9
Topic: Result of not obeying Government Rules and Regulations
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the importance of obeying government rules and regulations ii. highlight thc consequences of not obeying governincnt rules and regulations iii. outline ways to make people follow set down rules and regulations. E.g. class rules.
Week: 10
Topic: Obedience -meaning -obedience at home, school and obedience to God.
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to; i. explain the meaning of obedience ii. highlight the importance of obedience as the tools for obeying rules and regulation. iii. discuss what it means to be obedient to parents, school authority and God.
Week: 11
Topic: Food safety Guide to food safety
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Mention things to took out for in a safety food.
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION AND EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION AND EXAMINATION
