###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 2 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Welcome Test Revision of First Term
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Discuss some topics taught in first term ii. Importance of civic education. iii.Honesty-The importance of telling the truth always
Week: 2
Topic: Community -Meaning of community – Types of community -Modern communites/institution e.g. School community
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of a Community ii. identify types ofcommunity with examples iii. describe the various types of community
Week: 3
Topic: Meaning and importance of greeting Members of the community -Father -Mother -Siblings -Community Leaders Balee, chief, Obi and Emir
Objectives: pupils should be able to: i. outline members of the community -Father ii. identify the roles of community leaders. iii. differentiate between community leaders(Balee, Chief, Obi and Emir)
Week: 4
Topic: Rules in the community -Obedience -loyalty -Cooperation -Peaceful coexistence -Orderliness -Sanitation -Respect
Objectives: Pupils should be able to; – explain the meaning of Rules’ – outline Rules in thcommunity, – describe each rules in the community
Week: 5
Topic: Community leaders e.g •Yoruba-Oba -Igbo-Eze -Benin-Enugo -Alupo-Etsu -Ebira-()hinoyi -Other title holders in the communit
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain who a leader is ii. identify at least five ethnic group Nigeria iii. describe each title leader
Week: 6
Topic: Roles of community leaders – settlement of disputes -ensuring peace – organizing community work – link between the government and the community
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the roles of community leaders ii. identify the roles of community leaders iii. differentiate between dispute and peace
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Qualities of a community leader -Caring -Wise -Patient -Courage Intelligent -Integrity -Honesty
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify the qualities of a community leader ii. explain atleast four quality of a community leader iii. outline the importance of those quality
Week: 9-10
Topic: Kinds of work in our community e.g -Farming -Weaving -Woodwork -Cattle rearing -Trading -Fishing Kinds of works in our modern community -A Doctor -An Engineer -A lav,yer -A teacher -A soldier A pastor Reasons for workinø
Objectives: Students should be able to: i. explain reason why we work ii. identify at least six types of work in the local community iii. describe the tools used to work done in the community
Week: 11
Topic: Conscience -Meaning -Man’s possession of free will to do good or evil -Man’s feelings when he does evil-guilt conscience coupled with restofmind
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of Conscience ii.Discuss the word joy, guilt iii. Importance of Conscience to our daily lives
Week: 11
Topic: REVISON
Objectives: REVISON
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
