###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 5 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readiness test/ Loyalty -Meaning of Loyalty – evidence of loyalty
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Describe loyalty and show evidence of loyalty to family, school and the society as a whole ii. Discuss the consequences of disloyalty iii. Identify national services that shows loyalty
Week: 2
Topic: Loyalty in relationships and its examples
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. demonstrate how to show loyalty to friends and famlies ii. compare examples of loyal individuals they know
Week: 3
Topic: -Importance of loyalty -Consequences of disloyalty
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of disloyalty ii. Analyze and explain the importance of loyalty iii. Discuss the consequences of disloyalty
Week: 4
Topic: National service that shows loyalty
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. suggest loyal services that can be rendered to the family ii. demonstrate loyal services that can be rendered to the school iii. identify the services that requires loyalty to the nation
Week: 5
Topic: – meaning of leadership – types of leadership
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. explain the term leadership ii. identify who a leader is iii. mention the types of leadership iv. analyze the types of leadership
Week: 6
Topic: qualities of a good leader
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. identify qualities of a good leader; ii. describe the qualities of a good leader; iii. highlight examples of a good leader;
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Leadership functions
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Highlight different function of a leader ii. Explain the different levels of leadership i.e. religious and political leader iii. Discuss their roles
Week: 9
Topic: Leadership styles e.g democracy, dictatorship and liesserfaire
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. identify leadership style ii. discuss leadership styles iii. give examples of leadership styles
Week: 10
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: 
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: 
Week: 12-13
Topic: REVISION/EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION/EXAMINATION
