###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 6 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readiness test / loyalty Definition and meaning of national honors awards e -Type of national honor award
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. explain national honors award 2. Mention the types of national honor award, e.g ONE, CON GCON etc 3. Describe the types of national honor award
Week: 2
Topic: Lack, care and moral up bringing examples of peoples rewarded with national honor
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Mention at least five national heroes and heroine e.g Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Dr. Nnamdi Azikwe, Albert Macaulay etc ii. Arrange the pictures of national honor award receipt in a chart. iii. Identify the award received by each
Week: 3
Topic: Reasons for national honor award
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Identify reason for nation honors award Reward for hard work, obedience, patriotism, encouragement ii. Discuss reason for national honor award iii. Demonstrate attitude/values allowing people to receive award
Week: 4
Topic: Concepts of valuing Nigerian goods
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain the concept of valuing Nigeria goods ii. Identify some Nigeria made goods iii. Analyze the worth value of Nigeria goods
Week: 5
Topic: Reason why we should value Nigerian goods (b) examples of Nigerian goods
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Identify reason we should value Nigeria goods ii. Give at least five examples of Nigeria goods e.g groundnut oil, palm oil, cocoa, petrol,cement. iii. Justify the preference of Nigeria goods to imported goods
Week: 6
Topic: Benefit of patronizing Nigerian goods
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Identify at least four benefit of patronizing made in Nigerian goods 2. Analyze the benefit of patronizing Nigerian goods.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: 
Week: 8
Topic: Reason why made in Nigerian goods suffer low percentage
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Mention at least three reason why made in Nigerian goods suffer low patronage e g government policy, fake product, exchange rate 2. explan the reason why made in Nigerian goods suffer low patronage
Week: 9
Topic: Problems in develping positive attitude towards made in Nigeria product
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. identify problems of developing positive attitude towards made in Nigeria goods ii. explain problmes of developing made in Nigeria goods iii. demonstrate some of the positive attitude
Week: 10
Topic: How to encourage made in Nigeria goods
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. suggest ways through which the purchase of made in Nigeria goods can be encouraged ii. compare the prices of Nigerian made goods and the imported goods
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 12
Topic: Revision/Examination
Objectives: Revision/Examination
