###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 6 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readiness test / loyalty Concept of National Unity Evidence of loyalty
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. explain the concept of national unity 2. Demonstrate the concept of national unity 3. Analyze importance of national unity that promote national unity
Week: 2
Topic: Characteristics of National Unity
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Mention at least three characteristic of national unity e.g (l) one constitution (ii) common national goals (iii) Common national symbols. 2. Explain some of the characteristics 3. Analyze national symbols
Week: 3
Topic: -Factors that promote National Unity
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Identify five factors that promote national unity 2. Explain the factors that promotes national unity 3. Demonstrate some of the factors
Week: 4
Topic: Factors that promote National Unity (Continuation)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Identify five factors that promote national unity e.g (i) Peaceful co-existence (ii) Love (iii) Perseverance (iv) Understanding 2. explain factors that promote national unity 3. Demonstrate factors that promote national unity
Week: 5
Topic: Factors that hinder National Unity
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. identify three factors that hinder national unity 2. explain factors that hinder national unity 3. demonstrate some of the factors that hinder national youth
Week: 6
Topic: Factors that hinder National Unity (Continuation)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. itemize four factors that hinder national unity e.g -ethnicity -like of love -disloyalty 2. discuss that factor that hinders national unity 3. draw a map of Nigeria showing ethnic groups
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: 
Week: 8
Topic: Solutions to the factors that hinder national unity
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. identify the solution to the factors that hinder unity -Government policy -Lack of cooperation -Tribalism 2. explain the solution to the factors that hinders national unity 3. describe the government policy that can solve the problem of disunity
Week: 9
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 10
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 11-12
Topic: REVISION/EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION/EXAMINATION
