###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 2 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision/welcome Test
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: -Answer some question on last term’s topics
Week: 2
Topic: Community leadership in Nigeria traditional setting
Objectives: Pupils should be able to; i. explain who a leader is with examples ii. identify the three major ethic group in Nigeria iii. outline the traditional title of the community leadership in the major ethnic groups
Week: 3-4
Topic: Duties of a community leader
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning Duties ii. discuss the duties of a community leader Same groups iii. Outline the Characteristics of a good leader
Week: 5
Topic: Reward of community leaders
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain ffe meaning of reward ii. outline the importance of reward iii. identify ways community leaders are rewarded.
Week: 6
Topic: Other duties of a community leader -Keeping peace/Ensuring peaceful coexistence among his people -Organizing Community work -Ensure the provision of basic social amenities for the citizens
Objectives: Pupils should be,able to: i. Identify other duties of community leaders ii. Explain the duties of other iii. Outline the importance of the community leaders duties to the society
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Humility -Meaning -Reason why people should be humble
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. describe the word Humility ii. Identify reasons why people should be humble e.g to exalt and recommend iii. highlight the advantages of humility
Week: 9
Topic: Qualities of Community leadership
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain Who a leader is ii. highlight atleast 10 qualities of community leaders iii. identify importance of good qualities of community leaders
Week: 10
Topic: Road Signs and Traffic light -meaning -types -importance of road signs and traffic light
Objectives: By the end ofthis lesson, people should be able to i. explain the meaning of roadsigns and traffic light ii. identify and interprete various road signs and traffic light iii.highlight the importance of traffic light and signs iv. differentiate between signs and traffic light
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
