###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 1 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of last term’s work/Second term examination questions
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain some of the last term topics through revision done with them by the teacher.
Week: 2
Topic: Respect -Meaning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of respect; ii. Identify the importance of showing respect for one another and the society; iii. Highlight and discuss various examples of respect.
Week: 3
Topic: Ways of showing respect Salutation/Greeting e.g. bowing, kneeling, prostrating etc.
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i.hightlight atleast three ways of showing respect; ii. demostrate ways of showing respect.
Week: 4
Topic: People to respect -Parents -Elders -Teachers -Principal -Head teachers
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of respect; ii. highlight examples of people to be respected; iii. discuss ways to show respect to their Parents, Elders,Teachers proprietors/proprietess, head teachers etc.
Week: 5
Topic: People to Respect e.g. people who represent authorities -Ministers -Senators -Governors -President -Uniformed Men
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the roles of people in authority to respect list; ii. examples of people representing the authorities to be respected in the society
Week: 6
Topic: Places to respect Government buildings e.g. -Offices -Bank -Law Court -National Assembly etc
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. identify atleast four places to respect; ii. discus what those places are used for.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK/ MID TERM TEST
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK/ MID TERM TEST
Week: 8
Topic: Places to respect -Church -Mosque Plates to respect eg Places of Interest -The National -Museum -Amusement park National Arts theater
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Name the religious places to respected ii. Highlight places of interest
Week: 9
Topic: Things to Respect in the society e.g. -The Consitution -National flag -The National Anthem -The pledge
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Demonstrate ways to respect the national anthem and the national pledge; ii. Identify ways to respect national constitution and the national flag of the country; iii. explain the importance of respecting the national anthem.
Week: 10
Topic: Things to respect (cont) -The constitution -National Flag -Nigeria Currency -The Mace
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Demonstrate how to respect things; ii. Identify how to respect places, time and things.
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
