###Civic Education | Primary/Basic 3 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Meaning of Civic education
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. discuss the meaning of civic education ii, Identify reasons for civic education in the society
Week: 2-3
Topic: Components of civic education
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. dentify the component of civic education ii. explain the meaning Nationality iii. highlight conditions of belonging to a state
Week: 4
Topic: Component of Civic education contd. -Benefits of being a nationale -Right to vote -Acess to government
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the word Nationale ii. identify the Benefits ofbeing a nationale iii. discuss the of being a nationale
Week: 5
Topic: Right and duties
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of rights / duties ii. identify various examples of rights and duties of an individual iii. highlight the importance of rights & duties to individual in the society
Week: 6
Topic: Rights and duties – Right to life – Right to education
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. discuss on rights in relaåon life and education ii. highlight types of rights iii. demonstrate various types of rights and dutes
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Democratic practices -Registration -campaign
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of ii. democracy iii. describe democracy in the immediate environment iv. identify and discuss democratic practices
Week: 9
Topic: Benefit of democracy -Freedom of speech -Freedom of association
Objectives: -Pupils should be able to: i. Explain the benefit of democracy in the society ii. discuss and explain -Freedom of speech with example -Freedom of Association with example iii. Differentiate bebueen freedom of speech and freedom of associaäon
Week: 10
Topic: Community values: -Types of values -Honesty -Cooperation -Self reliance
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of Value ii. highlight various types of value iii. discuss the different types of value and its importance
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
