###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/ Basic 1 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readiness test -Ceremonies
Objectives: By the end 0f the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention / explain each types of ceremonies; ii. explain the important value derive from ceremonies.
Week: 2
Topic: Drawing of different weaving items
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of weaving item; ii.identify different Vpes of weaving items; iii. take part in goup work i.e. drawing of weaving item.
Week: 3
Topic: Singing -Ear training, using tonic solfa singing
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. identify and pronounce the solfa tonic correctly; ii. revise the previous tonic solfa song correctly; iii. pronounce the difficult words in the song correctly; iv. sing the song fluently.
Week: 4
Topic: Body make – up – Part of the body to be beautify -Materials for make – up.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention parts of the body to be beautified; ii. identify materials to decorate different part of the body.
Week: 5
Topic: Body make – up
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of body make – up; ii. list types of make – up iii. explain the importance of make-up iv. apply make – up to the part of the body neatly and correctly.
Week: 6
Topic: Colours -Primary colours and national colours
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify objects around thc class with their colours: ii. identify and explain the meaning of primary colours; iii. describe Nigeria national colours; draw Nigeria flag.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Body make-up materials
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. recall the part of body and beautification of the body; ii. explain the meaning of local make — up iii. beautification of the body.
Week: 9
Topic: Types of dance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. state some activities that include dance in the school; ii. state the steps in dance; iii. demostrate dance with the correct stepping and body movement.
Week: 10
Topic: Music as a tool for recording
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. discuss a previous event observed in the school ii. discuss a story heard from parent; iii. listen to the teacher while teaching them the meaning of keeping records with music. iv. listening to CDs telling stories of important past events e.g Nigeria independent.
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12&13
Topic: REVISION/EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION/EXAMINATION
