###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/ Basic 1 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readiness test -Meaning of craft
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. define and explain the meaning of craft correctly; ii. natne sonic crafts at home
Week: 2
Topic: Singing the Nigeria national anthem
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. recite the tonic sol-fa of the song correctly; ii.pronounce some difficult words discover and select from the song correctly, part in singing the song.
Week: 3
Topic: Types of craft
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. list types of craft; ii. illustrate each of the craft work correctly; iii. take part in a group work
Week: 4
Topic: Uses ofmusic in our sociery.
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson pupils should be able to; i. analyse the uses of music, ii. relate the importance to our day to day activities.
Week: 5
Topic: Definition of dance -Types of dance.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. demonstrate dance as in movelnent of the body; ii. discuss types of dance observes in the school and their locality; iii. to discuss the importance of dance in our school and society example; entcrtainmcnt, to pass information or massage to make people happy
Week: 6
Topic: Introduction to story telling
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: i. tell stories about them self, ii. outline the theme of a stoop, iii. follow teacher’s illustration to form short story.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM TEST
Objectives: MID TERM TEST
Week: 8
Topic: Introduction to Recorder
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to; i. position the fingers on the recorder correctly; ii. manipulate a recorder, and share with the class; iii. blow sound correctly with the recorder.
Week: 9
Topic: Sense of Belonging
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. define sense of belonging; ii. outline some items that can be personal; iii. explain the Importance of sense of belonging; iv. discuss how to achieve sense of belonging
Week: 10
Topic: Identification of craft items Drawing of craft items
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to; i. identify crafts in the home and discuss with the class; ii.explain craft itetns; draw some craft itmes.
Week: 11
Topic: Sing Folk Song
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. decide their tribe; ii. examine their culture; iii. sing their local song.
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
