###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 3 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Creating a drama sketch from a story.
Objectives: By the end the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. present a sh0rt and interesting story on any of the given themes: Teamwork, Patrotism and Dignity of Labour, ii. write/screen a short play, using any of the given theme.
Week: 2-3
Topic: Types of lines. Uses of Lines.
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to; i.describe what lines are, ii. outline the names and uses of different lines„ iii. draw the lines, iv. distinguish between the different types of lines, v. state the uses ofthe lines.
Week: 4
Topic: Musical notes
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. recall musical note definition, ii. identify the different musical notes, iii. match each of the notes with its value.
Week: 5
Topic: Musical notes. values and rest signs.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, students will be able to: i. recall what music and musical notes are, ii. expatiate on musical notes and their values, iii. analyse rest signs are and their equivalence with each note.
Week: 6
Topic: Drawing
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, students should be able to: i. explain the meaning of drawing, ii. list the different types of drawing, iii. distinguish the uses of drawing.
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM/OPENDAY
Objectives: MID-TERM/OPENDAY
Week: 8-9
Topic: Methods of moulding objects
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, students will be able to: i. summarize the meaning of modelling ii. apply the methods of moulding correctly, iii. mould objects, like cup, pot, bucket, etc On their own.
Week: 10
Topic: Introduction to recorder playing.
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, should be able to: i. Classify the Recorder correctly, among the western musical instruments. (woodwind), ii. name the different parts ofthe recorder, iii. identify the letter name of notes of the recorder, iv. match the notes with the letters of the lines and spaces of the staff.
Week: 11
Topic: Fashion accessories, singing songs about wearing cloths that are morally beautiful
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, students should be able to: i. define fashion accessories with examples ii. outline the different types of fashion accessories e.g beaded jewelry, comb, walking stick etc. iii. analyze the importance of accesories to man
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
