###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 5 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Types of Drawing /Readiness test
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify different types of drawing; ii. compare different types of drawing; iii. create different types of drawing.
Week: 2
Topic: Creating Music with Solfa Notation
Objectives: By the end of his lesson, pupils should be able to: i. write soffa names; ii. Interpret solfa in time; iii. sing solfa notaton of “Ise agbe n ise ile wa”; iv. play the song on a musicd instrument
Week: 3
Topic: Role play
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the reaning of role playing; ii. explain who an actor/actress is; iii. role play a leader leading school
Week: 4
Topic: Card Making and Decoration
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. list the types of cards; ii. itemize the uses of cards; iii. list materials for making cards; iv. create cards for a particular ceremony.
Week: 5
Topic: Song/Music with Nigerian Identity
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify some values relating to patriotism in a given song; ii. sing part of the given song e.g. “which way Nigerian by Sonny Okosun; iii. identify other patriotic singers.
Week: 6
Topic: Meaning and Objectives of Traditional appreticeship system
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. describe apprenticeship system; ii. justify the objectives of apprenticeship system in our environment; iii. survey trades where apprenticeship system is practiced in their environment.
Week: 7
Topic: TESTIMID.TERM/OPEN DAY
Objectives: TESTIMID.TERM/OPEN DAY
Week: 8
Topic: Imaginative and Creative Drawing
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. describe imaginative drawing; ii. draw from imagination; iii. interpret created artwork
Week: 9
Topic: Rhythmic Pattern
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. tap the bass drum rhythm of the Nigerian National Anthem; ii. mention types of rhythm; iii. count a given rhythm; iv. tap a given rhythm.
Week: 10-11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12-13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
