###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 3 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Introduction to modelling e.g objects like pot, cups, etc with paper mache
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, students will be able to: i. relate the definition of Inodelling with paper, ii. mention the materials used for modelling, iii. highlight the method and steps to follow in modclling with papier macho, iv. model the different objects e.g. cups, plates, animals like lizard etc.
Week: 2
Topic: Singing tonic solfas of twinkle twinkle little stars and some matching songs.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, students will be able to: i. repeat the musical sound pronounced by the teacher correctly, ii. sing the tonic solfas of the seven songs correctly, iii. sing the text, follow its tonic solfas.
Week: 3
Topic: Traditional fabrics and dresses.
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify the traditional fabrics of each culture of Nigerian languages, ii. appreciate their cultural heritage in terms of their traditional dresses, iii. state the occasions where each fabric is used and their importance.
Week: 4
Topic: Musical notes and their values
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils will be able to: i. identify the different musical notes with their shapes, ii. watch each notc with its own values and rest signs, iii. clap each of their beats or counts correctly, iv. plot a table containing cach note with their different names, v. values, beat number and rest signs with the assistance of the teacher
Week: 5
Topic: Methods of modelling objects with clay plastering.
Objectives: By the end oflesson, pupils will be able to: i. Describe what clay is, ii. mention the methods of modelling with clay, iii. demonstrate the different methods of modelling to mould objects like cup, pot, animals etc, with clay.
Week: 6
Topic: Importance of Traditional Dresses e.g. iro and Buba, Aso Oke, Adire, “Tar shara and Hula” etc
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils will be able to i. identify the traditional wears of different tribes in Nigeria i.e. Yoruba, Hausa, Igbo, etc, ii. outline some of the traditional wears and their importance to different cultures. e.g. Babariga”,” buba and iro”,” sokoto”, “yar-shar and hula”.
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM OPEN-DAY
Objectives: MID-TERM OPEN-DAY
Week: 8
Topic: Musical notes: Rhythmic Clapping.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils will be able to: i. identify each note with their numbers of counts or beats, ii. clap different music with their accurate timing.
Week: 9
Topic: Fashion accessories.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils will be able to i. relate the meaning of fashion accessories, ii. summarise the types of traditional accesories and their importance to fashion
Week: 10
Topic: Musical notes. Introduction to notation.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils will be able to i. musical notes on lines and space of the treble and bass stave correctly ii. musical match notes with their rest signs drawn
Week: 11
Topic: Costume. Make-up in Drama
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils will be able to i. Demonstrate the meaning of costume. ii. Classify the types and functions of costume. iii. how to make up and present to the class. . iv. Beaded jewelleries, corals, combs, walking stick.
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
