###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 1 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Meaning of Art -Identification of forms of Art -Functional artwork and uses
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils .should bc able to: i. explain the meaning of art, by giving ideas generally from their mind to become reality; ii. list forms of art i.e. drawing, painting, singing and writing; iii. give examples or functional artwork and create some functional artwork and the uses.
Week: 2
Topic: Meaning of Sounds and music Identification of Tonic Sol-fa
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: I. differentiate sounds and music; ii identifY the letters of tonic sol-fa and there tune correctly
Week: 3
Topic: Meaning of branches of art, -Identification of objects around the class, -Grouping object into branches
Objectives: Bythe end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i.explain what branches means by given explanation; ii. discuss the branches of classifY art work;
Week: 4
Topic: Rhymes children, -Definition of rhymes -Revision of previous rhymes
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. discuss the definition of rhymes; ii. recite their previous rhymes; iii. discuss the importance of rhymes
Week: 5
Topic: Definition of drama, -Forms of drama, -Types of drama,
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. define what drama as a means of telling stories; ii. explain the forms of drama i.e. I) comedy 2) tragedy; iii. outline and explain the types of drama example: – scripture and nonscripture.
Week: 6
Topic: Meaning of teamwork(Importancc of teamwork) How to achicvc tcam work
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to. i. explain the meaning thc meaning of team work, i.e. to joining hand, act on the samc thing; ii. outline watch importance of team work; iii. generate ideas to achieve team work;
Week: 7
Topic: TEXT/MID-TERM/OPEN DAY
Objectives: TEXT/MID-TERM/OPEN DAY
Week: 8
Topic: Meaning of art -Types of art -Function ofart work
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of art; ii. discuss types of art i.e.* visual and non-visual art; iii. discuss the Function of art workin the society spiritual use
Week: 9
Topic: 
Objectives: tonic sol-fa; sing the day is blight, is bright and fear happy day ofjoy with sol-fa; ii. repeat the song several time with the correct tune.
Week: 10-11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12-13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
