###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 4 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readiness test -Meaning of Arts -Origin of arts -Uses of Arts.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of art with examples, ii, trace the origin of arts, outline and explain the iii. uses of arts.
Week: 2
Topic: Definition of -Music -Sound. -Noise
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. define the meaning of Music and sound, ii. enumerate sources of music iif. distinguish between noise sound and music sound.
Week: 3
Topic: Definition of Drama and theatre.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils shoufd be able to: i. define drama and theatre, ii. differentiate between drama and theatre. iii. List people that are involve in drama and theatre performance.
Week: 4
Topic: Definition of Dance
Objectives: By the end of (he lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of dance, ii. distinguish features of various material used in the traditional dance in Nigerian culture. iii. perform a short traditional dance of any culture in Nigeria.
Week: 5
Topic: Classification of Art -Nigerian art works
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Name some Nigerian ad works with location, ii. Classify Nigerian art works they have named, iii. Draw some art works.
Week: 6
Topic: Nigerian Musical instruments and sounds they produce
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Identify,’ and name some Nigerian musical instuments pupils have seen, ii. classify Nigerian musical instrument from the video clips, iii. demonstrate how they produce sound and how they are played.
Week: 7
Topic: TESTIMID-TERWOPEN- DAY
Objectives: TESTIMID-TERWOPEN- DAY
Week: 8
Topic: Elements of Drama and theatre
Objectives: By he end of he lesson, pupas should be able to: i. Identify elements of drama and tieatre, ii. List and name elements of drama and theatre, iii. Disinguish element of drama and theatre.
Week: 9
Topic: Mode of greating
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify mode of greeting in different parts of Nigeria, ii. list when occasions to gree iii. list he benefits of greeting.
Week: 10
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 11-12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
