###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 6 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readiness test Mosaic
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils i. Appraise mosaic work, ii. Justify the materials and tools used for making mosaic. iii. create mosaic to reflect ills of HIV/AIDS, cultism, corvid 19,
Week: 2
Topic: Choral Singing
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. evaluate choral singing; ii. classify choral singing; iii. practice and perfom a choral plecs.
Week: 3
Topic: Introduction to play production
Objectives: By the end of tie lesson, pupils should be able to: i. discuss a play production; ii. analyse Nigerians play production; iii. evaluate one Nigerian actor/actress.
Week: 4
Topic: Forms of Dance
Objectives: By the end of lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify notable Nigerian dancers; ii. examine their contrbution to national development; iii. demonstrate one form of dance.
Week: 5
Topic: Care of Tools and Equipment used in Performing arts and entertainment
Objectives: By the end of lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Identify tools and equipment used in Arts, Performing arts and entertainment; ii. Categorize each tools and equipment into Arts, Performing arts and entertainment; iii. Explain how to care for each tool and equipment used in Arts, Performing arts and entertainment
Week: 6
Topic: Play
Objectives: By the end of lesson, pupils should be able to: i. discuss role playing ii. mention the function of role play; iii. identify occasions when role play can be used; iv. compare the difference between role play and acting.
Week: 7
Topic: TEST/MID-TERM/OPEN DAY
Objectives: TEST/MID-TERM/OPEN DAY
Week: 8
Topic: Recycling
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of recycling; ii. Mention the importance of recyding; iii. Identfy materials that can be recycled. iv. Recycle using plastc bottle for utlitarian use.
Week: 9
Topic: Introduction to still life drawing
Objectives: By the end of tie lesson, pupils should be able to: i. appraise sill life drawing, ii. identfy different parts of the body; iii. sketch a full human figure.
Week: 10
Topic: Definition of Music
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain music and noise, ii. discover sources of music; iii. differenfiate between noise and music.
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: 
Week: 12-13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: 
