###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 4 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readiness test Elements of Design Resumption Test
Objectives: By the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain and list elements of design, ii. collegiate lines, colour and elements of design, ill. distinguish elements of design with drawing and state the use of it.
Week: 2
Topic: Foreign Musical Instruments
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Identify and name foreign musical instruments, ii. Differentiate and demonstrate how those musical instruments are played and their shape, iii. Categorise those foreign musical instruments accordingly,
Week: 3
Topic: Features of Nigerian Traditional dance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Identify traditional dances in Nigeria, ii. State some feature of specific traditional dances in Nigeria, iii. Participate in the traditional dance of cultures in Nigeria.
Week: 4
Topic: Care of Environment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. describe environment with examples, ii. list objects/materials that can be found in the environment, iii. analyse how to take care of an environment.
Week: 5
Topic: Principles of Design
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain principles of design, ii. categorise principles of design, iii. create object with some of the principles listed.
Week: 6
Topic: Nigerian Musical instruments and sound they produce
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify and name some traditional musical instruments in their tribe, ii. demonstrate how they can be play and sounds they produce, iii. draw, play or describe traditional musical instuments their culture,
Week: 7
Topic: Mid-Term/ Open-day
Objectives: Mid-Term/ Open-day
Week: 8
Topic: Basic Movements in dance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify steps of dance ii. state the meaning of time, space, effort and mood in their choice of dance, iii. present a short dance performance of their choice of dance.
Week: 9
Topic: Types of colours and Texture
Objectives: By tie end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. list all colours they have seen, ii. arrange colours as in primary and secondary colours, iii. draw 6 or 12 colour wheel and paint
Week: 10
Topic: Songs/Music with Nigerian identity
Objectives: By end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify some of Nigerian popular art composers, ii. disünguish the trend of art composers, iii. develop, combine or create music along with the Nigerian art composers.
Week: 11
Topic: Creating a play with the themes; Honesty, Integrity, Right Attitude to Work.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. present short play on Honesty, Right Attitude to work.
Week: 12-13
Topic: REVISION & EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION & EXAMINATION
