###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 2 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: READINESS TEST SHAPES
Objectives: By thc end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i..identify shapes of objects in/outsidc the classroom; ii. draw different basic shapes and label correctly; iii. identify the shapes with similar real objects around them. E.g. Orange, Desk, Cup, Tin, Notebook etc.
Week: 2
Topic: TYPES OF OBJECTS AND SHAPES
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. distinguish objects of different sizes in/outside the classroom; ii. draw objects of various sizes and shapes (small and big); iii. identify types and size of objects around them. E.g. small chair, big chair, small cup, big cup, big and small rectangle etc.
Week: 3
Topic: COLOUR
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain and trace origin of colour; ii. identify the basic colours (Red, Yellow and Blue) in/outside the classroom; iii. relate the basic colours with objects in/outside the classroom.
Week: 4
Topic: Originasation of colour -Basic colours
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mix basic colours e.g. Red, Blue, Yellow to get secondary colours; ii. identify secondary colours in/outside the classroom; iii. form a colour wheel, showing the basic and secondary colours.
Week: 5
Topic: COLOUR MIXING
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain colouring and functional artwork e.g. Cup, Basket, Pot etc; ii. identify some functional artworks in/outside the classroom; iii. draw and cologr functional artworks
Week: 6
Topic: TRADITIONAL SONGS
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain traditional songs and give examples; ii. identify some Nigerian traditional song; iii.state some uses of Nigerian traditional song; iv. Sing Nigerian traditional song .
Week: 7
Topic: TEST/MID-TERM/OPEN DAY
Objectives: TEST/MID-TERM/OPEN DAY
Week: 8
Topic: TRADITIONAL DANCE
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain traditional dance; ii.identify traditional dance in Nigeria e.g. Gada, Atilogwu etc; iii. discuss the different occasions of performing ffem.
Week: 9
Topic: IMPORTANCE OF MUSIC
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of music; identi someson thatare ii. used to teach in the classroom; iii. discuss the use and importance ofmusic.
Week: 10
Topic: INTRODUCTION TO CRAFT MAKING
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. explain what is craft, ii. identify types of craft e.g. paper craft, fabric craft, woven craft in/outside the classroom; iii. state the uses of craft in/outside the classroom; iv. list some materials in crafts making
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
