###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 5 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Modelling Papier Mache Readiness Test
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. state the meaning of papier mache; ii. identify materials used in papier mache e.g. paper, gum, etc.; iii. name objects produced using papier mache e.g. cup, plate, etc.; iv. make object using papier mache.
Week: 2
Topic: Classification of Musical Instrument and Sound they produce
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of musical instument; ii. classify Nigerian musical instrument based on types, sound etc.; iii. classify foreign musical instument based on types, sound, uses etc.
Week: 3
Topic: Meaning and Objective of Tradiition Apprenticeship System
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. define apprericeship system: ii. list some trades where apprenticeship system is practiced.’ iii. list the objectives of apprenticeship system.
Week: 4
Topic: Fabric Decoration by tie and dye methods
Objectives: Byheend oftle lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain fabric decoration in he class; ii. mention methods used in fabric decoradon e.g. stitching, tying etc.; iii. list the material used in fabric decoraüon; iv. produce tie and dye
Week: 5
Topic: Rhythemic Pattern
Objectives: By the end of he lesson, pupils should be able to: i. state the meaning of rhythm; ii. mention the types of rhythm; iii. clap simple pattem of rhythm.
Week: 6
Topic: Definition of Drama
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupil should be able to: i. define drama and explain in the class; ii. list the uses of drama in the society; iii. differentiate between drama and theatre.
Week: 7
Topic: TEST/MID TERM/OPEN DAY
Objectives: TEST/MID TERM/OPEN DAY
Week: 8
Topic: Definition of Dance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupil should be able to: i. define dance: ii. identify types of dance; iii. perform dance for a partiallar occasion in the school (taditional dance).
Week: 9
Topic: Mode of Greeting
Objectives: By the end of he lesson, pupil should be able to: i. idenify how to greet in different parts of Nigeria; ii. idenåfy the benefit of greeting; iii. list when and occasion to greet;
Week: 10
Topic: Nigerian Musical Instument and Sounds they produce
Objectives: By the end of he lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify different types of Nigerian musical instruments; ii. explain how musical instrument produce sound; iii. list uses of Nigerian musical instruments.
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12-13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
