###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 3 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Introduction to Drawing: Drawing of things found in the enviroment e.g. house, chairs, biro, cars, road, etc.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify the image by nane, ii. state it functions /importance, iii. trace and draw the object/image
Week: 2
Topic: Introducuon to singing.
Objectives: By the end of the lessonj pupils should be able to: i. define the word ‘singing’, ii. identify the things that happens in their environments iii. sing about them, both in tonic solfas and in text e.g rain, traffic light, stars, sun etc.
Week: 3-4
Topic: Staging: The way in which a play is produced. -Presentation of play
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain what it means to stage a play/drama, ii. state the steps to laying ground work for a successful play staging iii. stage a play and present to the class.
Week: 5-6
Topic: Singing about flowery plants. -Singing about things in the environment with tonic solfas.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i.identify the different things in their immediate envnontnents and their usefulness, ii. sing different songs about floweryplants, iii. present songs on things that are in their environments.
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM OPEN_DAY
Objectives: MID-TERM OPEN_DAY
Week: 8
Topic: Types Flowers.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Mention the names of different types of flowers, ii. express their feelings about flowers existence around the environments and their functions, iii. recommend the types of flowers they like to plant in their environments, iv.draw the flowers and colour them beautifully.
Week: 9
Topic: Drawing of staff/stave. -The Grand/great staff. -The Clefs.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. relate what a staff is, ii. compare and contrast between the staff and the great stave, iii. differentiate between the different musical clefs, draw the clefs and staves.
Week: 10
Topic: Use of lines
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Recall the definition of line, ii. Differentiate between lines, iii. Draw different types of lines.
Week: 11
Topic: Study of Lines and spaces of music staff/stave.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify the treble and bass staves, ii. recite the first 7 letters of alphabet used to label the lines and spaces of treble and bass staves i.e. A, C, I), E, F, G, iii. create new acronyms to the lines and spaces or both treble and bass staves, iv. draw and label the lines and spaces of both the treble and manuscripts.
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
