###Cultural and Creative Art | Primary/Basic 5 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readiness test Introduction to Weaving using Paper
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify some weaving objects in and outside the classroom; ii. explain the meaning weaving; iii. mention types of weaving; iv. Weave a mat with strips of paper using plain weaver.
Week: 2
Topic: Mosaic
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify some mosaic work in/outside the classroom; ii. explain the meaning of mosaic; iii. list materials and tools for making mosaic; iv. Create mosaic to reflect on some happenings or topic like Covid19, cultism, rape,corruption etc.
Week: 3
Topic: Music Notes and their values
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain music notes; ii. list examples of music notes; iii. write the values of music notes; iv. clap he rhythms of the music notes,
Week: 4
Topic: Creating Music Solfa Notafion
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify and wite value of solfa notation; ii. Set words to solfa notation; iii. Clap rhythm of the phrase set to music; iv. Play the note on an instrument.
Week: 5
Topic: Creating a play with the theme of honesty/ integrity/ right attitude to work
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of a given value e.g. honesty; integrity etc. in the class. ii. create a play scenario based on the given theme; iii. state the uses of drama in teaching values.
Week: 6
Topic: Dance Motif
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain motif in dance; ii. state how motif can be applied to the study and practice of dance; iii. list the importance of dance motifs,
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM TEST/ OPEN DAY
Objectives: MID TERM TEST/ OPEN DAY
Week: 8
Topic: Acting
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. state the meaning of acting; ii. explain who an actor is,’ iii. mention five popular Nigerian actors: iv. act a short (5) five minutes play.
Week: 9
Topic: Impersonation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. state the meaning of impersonation; ii. explain the difference between impersonation and acting; iii. demonstrate on how to impersonate.
Week: 10
Topic: Developing Character in a Play
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain how to develop their part in a play they are acting; ii. mention basic tools of an actor, iii. perform body and voice exercises,
Week: 11-12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
