Skip to content ClassRoomNotes CRN is a classroom Teaching and Learning Materials for Teachers by Teachers to continuously inform and encourage teaching. Welcome Plan Lesson Notes. Term 3 Holiday Starts July 28th – Ends Sept 12th, 2025 Happy Holiday!!! Getting Ready for First Term Lessons Notes | First Term Exam Questions | How I spent my Last Holiday | LASUBEB 2025 Unified Timetable | Approved Y2025 – Y2026 Harmonized Academic Calendar Lagos State Pdf Free Download | Join Us @080WhatsApp | 080 Telegram and WhatsApp Channel Menu Home Scheme of Work (2) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Lesson Notes (3) Exam Questions (3) First Term Exam Second Term Exam Third Term Exam (10) Goodreads Donation!!! Privacy Policy Home AI Plan Lesson Notes Environmental Quality – Meaning of a Poor Quality Environment | Disadvantages of Environmental Degradation | Causes of Environmental Degradation | Solutions to Environmental Degradation Primary 5 (Basic 5) – Basic Science and Technology Environmental Quality – Meaning of a Poor Quality Environment | Disadvantages of Environmental Degradation | Causes of Environmental Degradation | Solutions to Environmental Degradation Primary 5 (Basic 5) – Basic Science and Technology BASIC SCIENCE FIRST TERM WEEK 8 PRIMARY 5 THEME – LEARNING ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENT PREVIOUS LESSON – Environmental Quality – Meaning of a Good Quality or Healthy Environment | Advantages of Healthy Environment Primary 5 (Basic 5) – Basic Science and Technology TOPIC – ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY LEARNING AREA 1. Introductory Activities 2. Meaning of a Poor Quality Environment 3. Disadvantages of Environmental Degradation 4. Causes of Environmental Degradation 5. How to Improve the Quality of Environmental Degradation 6. Lesson Evaluation and Weekly Assessment (Test) PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES By the end of the lesson, most of the pupils should have attained the following objectives – 1. explain the meaning of poor environment. 2. mention the causes of environmental degradation. 3. state the solution to environmental degradation. 4. list the disadvantages of degrading the environment. 5. attempt 70% (and above) of weekly assessments. ENTRY BEHAVIOUR The pupils can state the disadvantages of a poor environment. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS The teacher will teach the lesson with the aid of chart showing a poor environment. METHOD OF TEACHING Choose a suitable and appropriate methods for the lessons. Note – Irrespective of choosing methods of teaching, always introduce an activities that will arouse pupil’s interest or lead them to the lessons. REFERENCE MATERIALS Scheme of Work 9 – Years Basic Education Curriculum Course Book All Relevant Material Online Information Relevant Method Environmental Quality – A Good Quality or Healthy Environments (Primary 5) ASEI PDSI METHOD Environmental Quality – A Poor Quality or Unhealthy Environments (Primary 5) ASEI PDSI METHOD CONTENT OF THE LESSON LESSON 1 – I NTRODUCTION Environmental degradation is the release of harmful substances into the environment leading to the reduction of soil quality, depletion of the ozone layer, acid rain, flooding, etc. This happens when we change or disturb the nature of the environment in undesirable ways. For examples: oil spills, uncontrolled industrial works, over fishing, applying chemicals to soil, bush burning, playing loud music, dumping refuse. MEANING OF POOR QUALITY ENVIRONMENT An unhealthy environment is an environment that is not free of disease causing things life like heaps of refuse, pollution, flies and mosquitoes, etc. CAUSES OF ENVIRONMENTAL DEGRADATION 1. Erosion 2. Pollution 3. Overpopulation 4. Landfill with waste materials 5. Deforestation 6. Natural causes LESSON 2 – DISADVANTAGES OF POOR QUALITY ENVIRONMENT 1. It is unattractive environment. 2. It makes people to be restless – high noise or crowded environments. 3. It makes people to be sick and uncomfortable – air pollution. 4. It full of pests and diseases. 5. It is a breeding ground from insects, flies and mosquitoes. 6. It makes the soil unproductive – soil erosion. HOW TO IMPROVE THE QUALITY OF ENVIRONMENTAL DEGRADATION 1. Stop deforestation 2. Environmental laws 3. Government regulations 4. Start afforestation 5. Fines and punishment for breaking environmental laws 6. Public education PRESENTATION To deliver the lesson, the teacher adopts the following steps: 1. To introduce the lesson, the teacher revises the previous lesson. Based on this, he/she asks the pupils some questions; 2. Displays chart showing a good and bad environment. Pupil’s Activities – State the materials that an environment good and beautiful. 3. Discuss the meaning of an unhealthy environment. Pupil’s Activities – Participate actively in the class discussion by explaining the meaning of an unhealthy environment. 4. Leads pupils to discuss the possible causes of environmental degradation. Pupil’s Activities – Identify and discuss the causes of environmental degradation. 5. Leads pupils to discuss the disadvantages (effects) of an unhealthy environment. Pupil’s Activities – State the effects of environmental degradation. 6. Helps pupils plan clean and beautify their school environment. Pupil’s Activities – Sweep and clean their school surrounding everyday and plant flowers to beautify the school surrounding. 7. By the end of each lesson, summarize the key points on the board. Pupil’s Activities – Copy as the teacher writes. CONCLUSION To conclude the lesson for the week, the teacher revises the entire lesson and links it to the following week’s lesson. NEXT LESSON Meaning of Waste | Types of Waste Primary 5 (Basic 5) – Basic Science and Technology LESSON EVALUATION Ask pupils to: 1. explain the meaning of a poor quality environment. 2. define environmental quality. 3. state 3 disadvantages of a healthy environment 4. mention 3 causes of environmental degradation. 5. list 4 ways of improving environmental degradation. WORKBOOK WEEKLY ASSESSMENT (TEST) 1. _______ is an environment that is not free of disease causing things life like heaps of refuse, pollution, flies and mosquitoes, etc. A. Good quality environment B. Poor quality environment C. Good quantity environment D. Poor quantity environment 2. _______ is the release of harmful substances into the environment leading to the reduction of soil quality, depletion of the ozone layer, acid rain, flooding, etc. A. Environmental quality B. Environmental quantity C. Environmental degradation D. Environmental gradation 3. Environmental degradation happens when we change or disturb the nature of the environment in _______ ways. A. undesirable B. desirable C. more desirable D. less desirable 3. Which of the following is not the causes of environmental degradation? A. Erosion B. Pollution C. Planting of trees D. Overpopulation 4. One of the following is not the disadvantages of environmental degradation. A. Unattractive environment B. Restlessness C. Wide spread of diseases D. Attractive environment 5. The following are the causes of environmental degradation except _______. A. Landfill with waste materials B. Deforestation C. Natural causes D. Regular cleaning 6. The following are the good quality environmental except _______. A. attractive environment B. free from all form of pollution C. breeding ground for diseases D. Restful environment 7. A poor quality environment is a breeding ground for pests and diseases. A. True B. False 8. An environment free from all form of diseases is called environmental degradation. A. True B. False 9. A good quality environment make people sick and uncomfortable. A. False B. True 10. Afforestation is the cutting down of trees while deforestation is planting of trees. A. True B. False 11. Fines and punishment for people which break environmental laws cannot them from degrading the environment. A. True B. False 12. Environmental degradation is the damage caused to the environment by a lowering of the quality of air, water and soil or by the destruction of wildlife and ecosystems. A. True B. False Related Posts Introduction to Tennis Games | Types of Court Surfaces in Tennis | Basic Skills in Lawn Tennis | Equipments in Lawn Tennis | Officials of Lawn Tennis SS 1 Physical and Health Education Meaning of Water Evaporation and Water Condensation Primary 4 (Basic 4) Third Term Examination Cultural and Creative Arts Primary 2 (Basic 2) Exam Questions About The Author Alabi M. S. Michael is Principal Education Officer at LASUBEB. With 15+ years experience in teaching and learning, He loves talking about Plan Lesson Notes and Quality Assurance in Education. He also believes teachers inspire our future. CRN (ClassRoomNotes) is a website FOR TEACHERS BY TEACHER, and He aims to continuously inform and encourage teaching! All materials are subject to TERMLY review. Add a Comment Cancel reply You must be logged in to post a comment. This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed. Search for Topics Subject Categories Academic Calendar AI Plan Lesson Notes Exam Questions (3) First Term Examination Goodreads Lesson Notes (3) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Scheme of Work (2) Second Term Examination Third Term Examination (10) Start Young Retire Rich Start driving with Bolt and earn ₦10,000 on top of your rides revenue. Sign up with my referral code MICHAELA24234 PLAN LESSON NOTES First Term Lessons Week 1 | Week 2 | Week 3 | Week 4 | Week 5 | Week 6 | Week 6 | Week 7 – Mid Term Break | Week 8 | Week 9 | Week 10 | Week 11 Second Term Lessons Third Term Lessons EXAM QUESTIONS First Term Exam Questions Second Term Exam Questions Third Term Exam Questions SCHOOL CALENDARS 2025/2026 Academic Calendar 2024/2025 Academic Calendar 2023/2024 Academic Calendar 2022/2023 Academic Calendar 2021/2022 Academic Calendar 2020/2021 Academic Calendar ABOUT US About Me ClassRoomNote Contact Us Privacy Policy ShowLove Dashboard TRUST + Teacher Handbook Grade Levels and Steps GoodRead Lost But Found OUR SITES Eko Fun Quizzes PRIMARY LESSON NOTES Primary 1 (Basic 1) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 2 (Basic 2) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 3 (Basic 3) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 4 (Basic 4) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 5 (Basic 5) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 6 (Basic 6) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes – ClassRoom Lesson Notes Copyright | CRN Theme by ClassRoomNotes Back to Top ↑