Skip to content ClassRoomNotes CRN is a classroom Teaching and Learning Materials for Teachers by Teachers to continuously inform and encourage teaching. Welcome Plan Lesson Notes. Term 3 Holiday Starts July 28th – Ends Sept 12th, 2025 Happy Holiday!!! Getting Ready for First Term Lessons Notes | First Term Exam Questions | How I spent my Last Holiday | LASUBEB 2025 Unified Timetable | Approved Y2025 – Y2026 Harmonized Academic Calendar Lagos State Pdf Free Download | Join Us @080WhatsApp | 080 Telegram and WhatsApp Channel Menu Home Scheme of Work (2) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Lesson Notes (3) Exam Questions (3) First Term Exam Second Term Exam Third Term Exam (10) Goodreads Donation!!! Privacy Policy Home AI Plan Lesson Notes Environmental Quality – Meaning of a Good Quality or Healthy Environment | Advantages of Healthy Environment Primary 5 (Basic 5) – Basic Science and Technology Environmental Quality – Meaning of a Good Quality or Healthy Environment | Advantages of Healthy Environment Primary 5 (Basic 5) – Basic Science and Technology BASIC SCIENCE BASIC SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY FIRST TERM WEEK 7 PRIMARY 5 THEME – LEARNING ABOUT THE ENVIRONMENT PREVIOUS LESSON – Change Around Us – Effects of Soil Erosion | Controlling Soil Erosion Primary 5 (Basic 5) – Basic Science and Technology TOPIC – ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY LEARNING AREA 1. Introductory Activities 2. Meaning of Environmental Quality 3. Advantages of Healthy Environment 4. Ways of Maintaining Healthy Environment 5. Lesson Evaluation and Weekly Assessment (Test) PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES By the end of the lesson, most of the pupils should have attained the following objectives – 1. state the advantages of a healthy environment. 2. identify ways of maintaining healthy and beautiful school environment 3. list materials for maintaining healthy environment. ENTRY BEHAVIOUR The pupils can state the benefits of a good environment. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS The teacher will teach the lesson with the aid of: 1. Potted plants 2. Materials – brooms, rakes, hoes, cutlasses, machetes, baskets. 3. Pictures of an attractive and unattractive surrounding. METHOD OF TEACHING Choose a suitable and appropriate methods for the lessons. Note – Irrespective of choosing methods of teaching, always introduce an activities that will arouse pupil’s interest or lead them to the lessons. REFERENCE MATERIALS Scheme of Work 9 – Years Basic Education Curriculum Course Book All Relevant Material Online Information Relevant Method Environmental Quality – A Good Quality or Healthy Environments (Primary 5) ASEI PDSI METHOD Environmental Quality – A Poor Quality or Unhealthy Environments (Primary 5) ASEI PDSI METHOD CONTENT OF THE LESSON LESSON 1 – I NTRODUCTION The quality of the environment that people live in will determine how healthy or unhealthy they will be. When an environment has lots of smoke, unclean water, noise etc., we say the quality of the environment is bad. And if the environment has clean water, less smoke, less noise, etc., we say the quality of the environment is good. MEANING OF GOOD ENVIRONMENT A good environment is an healthy environment that is safe for living. When the environment is unsafe, it is called poor environment. MEANING OF A QUALITY OR HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT A healthy environment is an environment that is free of disease by heaps of refuse, pollution, flies and mosquitoes, etc. It is important for us to take proper care of our environment if we want to live free from illness and diseases. Quality environment is a healthy environment. ADVANTAGES OF HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT 1. It makes our environment attractive. 2. It makes people to be at peace and free from noise. 3. It helps keep clean our world. 4. It prevents diseases, infections, water borne diseases and pollution. 5. It helps improve our health and living habits. 6. It is safe for living. 7. It improves the quality of life. LESSON 2 – WAYS OF MAINTAINING HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT 1. By sweeping the classroom and the school compound. 2. By sprinkling water on the floor before sweeping. 3. By picking refuse. 4. By cleaning the gutters. 5. By disposing of refuse properly. 6. By cutting grass low in the playing fields and lawns; 7. By planting flowers. 8. By washing floors of classrooms regularly. 9. By dusting the tables and chairs. THE MATERIALS FOR A HEALTHY ENVIRONMENT 1. Cutlass 2. Hoe 3. Rake 4. Wheelbarrow 5. Dustin 6. Insecticides 7. Watering can 8. Baskets 9. Flower seeds 10. Water, etc. PRESENTATION To deliver the lesson, the teacher adopts the following steps: 1. To introduce the lesson, the teacher revises the previous lesson. Based on this, he/she asks the pupils some questions; 2. Displays chart showing a good and bad environment. Pupil’s Activities – State the materials that an environment good and beautiful. 3. Discuss the meaning of a good and healthy environment. Pupil’s Activities – Participate actively in the class discussion by explaining the meaning of a good and healthy environment. 4. Leads pupils to state and discuss the ways of maintaining a good environment. Pupil’s Activities – Identify and state the ways of maintaining a good environment. 5. Asks pupils to mention materials needed to maintain good and healthy environment. Pupil’s Activities – State materials needed to maintain good and healthy environment. 6. Helps pupils plan clean and beautify their school environment. Pupil’s Activities – Sweep and clean their school surrounding everyday and plant flowers to beautify the school surrounding. 7. By the end of each lesson, summarize the key points on the board. Pupil’s Activities – Copy as the teacher writes. CONCLUSION To conclude the lesson for the week, the teacher revises the entire lesson and links it to the following week’s lesson. NEXT LESSON LESSON EVALUATION Ask pupils to: 1. explain the meaning of good environment. 2. define environmental quality. 3. state 3 advantages of a healthy environment 4. state 3 ways of beautifying the environment. 5. list 4 materials for maintaining a healthy environment. WORKBOOK WEEKLY ASSESSMENT (TEST) 1. The quality of the environment that people live in will determine how _______ or _______ they will be. A. good and healthy B. bad and unhappy C. healthy and unhealthy D. unhealthy and bad 2. When an environment has lots of smoke, unclean water, noise etc., we say the quality of the environment is _______. A. bad B. good C. dirty D. unhealthy 3. When the environment has clean water, less smoke, less noise, etc., we say the quality of the environment is _______. A. better B. nice C. good D. bad 4. A good environment is an healthy environment that is _______ for living. A. unsafe B. safe C. less safe D. bad safe 5. A bad environment is an unhealthy environment that is _______ for living. A. unsafe B. safe C. more safe D. better safe 6. _______ is an environment that is free of disease by heaps of refuse, pollution, flies and mosquitoes, etc. A. unhealthy environment B. healthy environment C. all of the above D. None of the above 7. One of theses is not the advantage of a good environment. A. It makes our environment attractive. B. It makes people to be at peace and free from noise. C. It helps keep clean our world. D. It spread diseases, infections, water borne diseases and pollution. 8. Which of these is the advantages of quality environment. A. It helps improve the quality our health and living habits. B. It is unsafe for living. C. It reduces the quality of life. D. It makes our world unclean. 9. Which of the following is not the way of maintaining healthy environment? A. Dumping of refuse anywhere. B. Disposing our waste properly. C. Sprinkling water on the floor before sweeping. D. Cutting grass low in the playing fields and lawns. 10. One of the following is the way of maintaining healthy environment? A. Leaving the grass to over grown. B. Disposing waste anywhere. C. Sweeping the classroom once in a month. D. Planting flowers 11. It is important for us to take proper care of our environment if we want to live free from illness and diseases. A. False B. True 12. Quality environment is a unhealthy environment. A. True B. False 13. When an environment has lots of smoke, unclean water, noise etc., we say the quality of the environment is good. A. True B. False 14. When environment has clean water, less smoke, less noise, etc., we say the quality of the environment is bad. A. True B. False 15. Healthy environment prevents diseases, infections, water borne diseases and pollution. A. False B. True Related Posts IT – Information Technology (Primary 2) Addition of Whole Numbers with the Sum less than 5 (Primary 1) First Term Examination Security Education Basic 8 (JSS 2) About The Author Alabi M. S. Michael is Principal Education Officer at LASUBEB. With 15+ years experience in teaching and learning, He loves talking about Plan Lesson Notes and Quality Assurance in Education. He also believes teachers inspire our future. CRN (ClassRoomNotes) is a website FOR TEACHERS BY TEACHER, and He aims to continuously inform and encourage teaching! All materials are subject to TERMLY review. Search for Topics Subject Categories Academic Calendar AI Plan Lesson Notes Exam Questions (3) First Term Examination Goodreads Lesson Notes (3) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Scheme of Work (2) Second Term Examination Third Term Examination (10) Start Young Retire Rich Start driving with Bolt and earn ₦10,000 on top of your rides revenue. Sign up with my referral code MICHAELA24234 PLAN LESSON NOTES First Term Lessons Week 1 | Week 2 | Week 3 | Week 4 | Week 5 | Week 6 | Week 6 | Week 7 – Mid Term Break | Week 8 | Week 9 | Week 10 | Week 11 Second Term Lessons Third Term Lessons EXAM QUESTIONS First Term Exam Questions Second Term Exam Questions Third Term Exam Questions SCHOOL CALENDARS 2025/2026 Academic Calendar 2024/2025 Academic Calendar 2023/2024 Academic Calendar 2022/2023 Academic Calendar 2021/2022 Academic Calendar 2020/2021 Academic Calendar ABOUT US About Me ClassRoomNote Contact Us Privacy Policy ShowLove Dashboard TRUST + Teacher Handbook Grade Levels and Steps GoodRead Lost But Found OUR SITES Eko Fun Quizzes PRIMARY LESSON NOTES Primary 1 (Basic 1) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 2 (Basic 2) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 3 (Basic 3) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 4 (Basic 4) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 5 (Basic 5) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 6 (Basic 6) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes – ClassRoom Lesson Notes Copyright | CRN Theme by ClassRoomNotes Back to Top ↑