Skip to content ClassRoomNotes CRN is a classroom Teaching and Learning Materials for Teachers by Teachers to continuously inform and encourage teaching. Welcome Plan Lesson Notes. Term 3 Holiday Starts July 28th – Ends Sept 12th, 2025 Happy Holiday!!! Getting Ready for First Term Lessons Notes | First Term Exam Questions | How I spent my Last Holiday | LASUBEB 2025 Unified Timetable | Approved Y2025 – Y2026 Harmonized Academic Calendar Lagos State Pdf Free Download | Join Us @080WhatsApp | 080 Telegram and WhatsApp Channel Menu Home Scheme of Work (2) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Lesson Notes (3) Exam Questions (3) First Term Exam Second Term Exam Third Term Exam (10) Goodreads Donation!!! Privacy Policy Home AI Plan Lesson Notes Existence of Air – Meaning and Properties of Air | Uses of Air Primary 2 (Basic 2) Term 3 Week 5 Basic Existence of Air – Meaning and Properties of Air | Uses of Air Primary 2 (Basic 2) Term 3 Week 5 Basic BASIC SCIENCE BASIC SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY THIRD TERM WEEK 5 PRIMARY 2 THEME – OUR ENVIRONMENT PREVIOUS LESSON – Colour Identification | Classification of Colours Using Objects | Uses of Colours Primary 2 (Basic 2) Term 3 Week 4 Basic Science and Technology TOPIC – EXISTENCE OF AIR LEARNING AREA 1. Introduction 2. Existence of Air 3. Meaning and Properties of Air 4. Things that Contain Air 5. Importance (Uses) of Air 6. Revision and Weekly Assessment (Test) LEARNING OBJECTIVES By the end of the lesson, most of the pupils should have attained the following objectives – 1. demonstrate the existence of air. 2. say the meaning of air. 3. identify the properties of air. 4. state the uses of air. 5. appreciate the importance of air in their daily life. ENTRY BEHAVIOUR The pupils can demonstrate the existence of air by breathing in (out), blowing air in the balloon, etc. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS The teacher will teach the lesson with the aid of: 1. Electric fan 2. Hand fan 3. Straw and water METHOD OF TEACHING Choose a suitable and appropriate methods for the lessons. Note – Irrespective of choosing methods of teaching, always introduce an activities that will arouse pupil’s interest or lead them to the lessons. REFERENCE MATERIALS 1. Scheme of Work 2. 9 – Years Basic Education Curriculum 3. Course Book 4. All Relevant Material 5. Online Information Primary 2 – Scheme of Work and Plan Lesson Notes (All Subjects) Primary 3 – Scheme of Work and Plan Lesson Notes (All Subjects) First Term Workbook – Weekly Assessment for Basic Science and Technology (Primary 3) CONTENT OF THE LESSON LESSON 1 – INTRODUCTION Air is around. We breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbo dioxide. Oxygen and carbon dioxide are air (gas). All living things need air. The human, animals and plants would die without air. Note – When you ask pupils to breath in and out, please don’t ask them to close their noses. MEANING OF AIR Air is the the mixture of gases that surround us. The gases are invisible, odorless and tasteless. When air is motion, it is called wind. Wind is air in motion. EXISTENCE OF AIR Air exists because we breathe it everyday and it is necessary for all things living on this earth. Apart from simple machines, other machines can not work perfectly without air. For example – the car, generator, all air machines, pumping machine, etc. ACTIVITIES ON EXISTENCE OF AIR Materials – balloon, light ball, whistle, hand fan, rechargeable fan and musical instruments. Teacher organizes pupils in groups or pairs depending on the size of the class to, 1. Gently breathe in and breathe out. Breathing is the act of expelling air from the lungs. 2. Blow air in balloon, light ball, whistle or musical instruments. LESSON EVALUATION Teacher ask pupils to, 1. say the different between oxygen and carbon dioxide. 2. demonstrate the existence of air. 3. state 5 things that produce air. 4. mention 5 living things that depends on air. 5. mention 5 machines that cannot work without air. 6. state 5 things contain air. LESSON 2 – PROPERTIES OF AIR ACTIVITIES ON PROPERTIES OF AIR Based on the existing groups or pairs, teacher guides pupils to carry out the following instructions, 1. AIR HAS WEIGHT Materials needed – Ball and scale balance Guided Instructions, 1. Weigh a deflated football bladder on a scale balance, take the weigh and write it down. 2. Inflate the football with air and weigh it again, take the weigh and write it down. 3. Compare the weights. 4. Which one is heavier? 5. What makes it heavier, if inflated ball is heavier? 6. What does this suggest to you? Expected responses – Air has weight. 2. Air OCCUPIES SPACE Materials needed – Bottles and buckets of water. Guided Instructions, 1. Put a small bottle upside down into a basin of water. 2. Turn the bottle up side down and put inside the water. What do you observe? Expected responses – Water cannot go in the bottle. 3. Gently turn the mouth of the bottle toward the surface of the water. What do you observe? Pupil’s comment – Water can enter the bottle. 4. Explain why water cannot enter into the bottle in the first instance. 5. Is the bottle empty after? P upil’s comment – No, it is not empty. Conclusion – Air occupies space. For the water to enter the bottle, the air must go out. But if  the air cannot come out, water cannot enter. 3. AIR HAS PRESSURE Materials needed – Balloons Guided Instructions, 1. Inflate a balloon. 2. Touch it gently. 3. How does it feel to touch. 4. Release the inflated balloon in front of pieces of paper. 5. What do you observe? Air blown the pieces of paper away. Teacher’s comment – Air can push anything about because it has weight and pressure. The weight of an object is force that push objects about. 4. AIR HAS WEIGHT Materials needed – Balloon and flat plywood Guided Instructions, 1. Inflated 4 balloons. 2. Put all the balloons together and place a flat plywood on them. 3. One of you should sit on it. 4. What do you observe? 5. What keeps the pupil afloat on the balloons? Teacher’s/Pupil’s comment – Air has or support weight. Bicycles, cars and lorries are resting on tyres containing a lot of air. PROPERTIES OF AIR The properties of air are as follows: 1. Air has weight. 2. Air occupies space. 3. Air exert pressure. 4. Air supports weight. 5. Air is affected by heat. 6. Air can be compressed. 7. Air is affected by altitude. 8. Air is made up of gases LESSON 3 – USES OF AIR The importance (uses) of air are as follows: 1. Air supports lives. 2. Air supports water cycle. 3. Air supports pollination. 4. Air helps in transport. 5. Air minimizes pollution. 6. Air regulates temperature. LESSON EVALUATION Teacher asks pupils to analyze, 1. air supports lives. 2. air supports water cycle. 3. air supports pollination. 4. air helps in transport. 5. air minimizes pollution. 6. air regulates temperature. REVISION AND WEEKLY ASSESSMENT (TEST) PRESENTATION To deliver the lesson, the teacher adopts the following steps: 1. To introduce the lesson, the teacher revises the previous lesson. Based on this, he/she asks the pupils some questions; 2. Teacher organizes pupils in groups or pairs depending on the size of the class. 3. Teacher guides pupils to gently breathe in and breathe out. 4. Teacher asks pupils, what did you breathe in and breathe out? Pupil’s Activities – We breathe in oxygen and breathe out carbon dioxide. 5. Teacher asks pupils, what does mean when someone doesn’t breathe anymore? Pupil’s Activities – When someone doesn’t breathe anymore means the person is death. 6. Teacher uses the pupil’s responses to introduce the lesson and leads a discussion on the meaning of air and its existence. Pay attention to the lesson introduction to understand the concept of the lesson. 7. Teacher guides the groups or pairs to demonstrate the existence of air by breathing, blowing air inside the ball, whistle or musical instruments. Pupil’s Activities – Prove that air exists. 8. Teacher leads a discussion on the properties of air by using different activities. Pupil’s Activities – Identify and discuss the properties of air. 9. Teacher guides pupils to identify and discuss the importance (uses) of air. Pupil’s Activities – Analyze and appreciate the importance of air in our daily life. 10. Teacher summarizes the lessons on the board with appropriate lesson evaluation. Pupil’s Activities – Participate actively in the summary of the lesson by responding correctly to the questions and write as instructed. CONCLUSION To conclude the lesson for the week, the teacher revises the entire lesson and links it to the following week’s lesson. Next Lesson – Air (Flotation) – Objects that Float in the Air | Characteristics of Objects that Float in Air | The Effects of Air on the Body Primary 2 (Basic 2) Term 3 Week 6 Basic Science and Technology LESSON EVALUATION Teacher asks pupils to, 1. say the different between oxygen and carbon dioxide. 2. discuss and demonstrate the existence of air. 3. state 5 things that produce air. 4. mention 5 living things that depends on air. 5. mention 5 machines that cannot work without air. 6. state 5 things contain air. 7. mention 5 animals that breathe in and out air. 8. plants breathe in and out air. True/False 9. identify 5 things that used air to work well. Hint – tyre, ball, balloon, etc. 10. state 5 uses of air. 11. Analyze how, air supports lives. air supports water cycle. air supports pollination. air helps in transport. air minimizes pollution. air regulates temperature. Related Posts Football – Officiating Rules and Regulations – Officials and Their Duties Primary 5 (Basic 5) and Primary 6 (Basic 6) – Physical and Health Education Substraction of Whole Numbers (Primary 1) Classification of Crops Based on Life Span, Forms, Uses and Source of Nutrients About The Author Alabi M. S. Michael is Principal Education Officer at LASUBEB. With 15+ years experience in teaching and learning, He loves talking about Plan Lesson Notes and Quality Assurance in Education. He also believes teachers inspire our future. CRN (ClassRoomNotes) is a website FOR TEACHERS BY TEACHER, and He aims to continuously inform and encourage teaching! All materials are subject to TERMLY review. Search for Topics Subject Categories Academic Calendar AI Plan Lesson Notes Exam Questions (3) First Term Examination Goodreads Lesson Notes (3) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Scheme of Work (2) Second Term Examination Third Term Examination (10) Start Young Retire Rich Start driving with Bolt and earn ₦10,000 on top of your rides revenue. Sign up with my referral code MICHAELA24234 PLAN LESSON NOTES First Term Lessons Week 1 | Week 2 | Week 3 | Week 4 | Week 5 | Week 6 | Week 6 | Week 7 – Mid Term Break | Week 8 | Week 9 | Week 10 | Week 11 Second Term Lessons Third Term Lessons EXAM QUESTIONS First Term Exam Questions Second Term Exam Questions Third Term Exam Questions SCHOOL CALENDARS 2025/2026 Academic Calendar 2024/2025 Academic Calendar 2023/2024 Academic Calendar 2022/2023 Academic Calendar 2021/2022 Academic Calendar 2020/2021 Academic Calendar ABOUT US About Me ClassRoomNote Contact Us Privacy Policy ShowLove Dashboard TRUST + Teacher Handbook Grade Levels and Steps GoodRead Lost But Found OUR SITES Eko Fun Quizzes PRIMARY LESSON NOTES Primary 1 (Basic 1) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 2 (Basic 2) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 3 (Basic 3) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 4 (Basic 4) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 5 (Basic 5) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 6 (Basic 6) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes – ClassRoom Lesson Notes Copyright | CRN Theme by ClassRoomNotes Back to Top ↑