Skip to content ClassRoomNotes CRN is a classroom Teaching and Learning Materials for Teachers by Teachers to continuously inform and encourage teaching. Welcome Plan Lesson Notes. Term 3 Holiday Starts July 28th – Ends Sept 12th, 2025 Happy Holiday!!! Getting Ready for First Term Lessons Notes | First Term Exam Questions | How I spent my Last Holiday | LASUBEB 2025 Unified Timetable | Approved Y2025 – Y2026 Harmonized Academic Calendar Lagos State Pdf Free Download | Join Us @080WhatsApp | 080 Telegram and WhatsApp Channel Menu Home Scheme of Work (2) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Lesson Notes (3) Exam Questions (3) First Term Exam Second Term Exam Third Term Exam (10) Goodreads Donation!!! Privacy Policy Home AI Plan Lesson Notes Measuring the Volume of Regular and Irregular Solid Objects or Shapes Primary 4 (Basic 4) Term 2 Week 9 Basic Science and Technology Measuring the Volume of Regular and Irregular Solid Objects or Shapes Primary 4 (Basic 4) Term 2 Week 9 Basic Science and Technology BASIC SCIENCE BASIC SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY FIRST TERM WEEK 9 PRIMARY 4 THEME – MEASUREMENT PREVIOUS LESSON – Measuring the Volume of Liquids | Standard Units of Volume | Measuring Liquid in Millilitre (ML), Centilitre (CL) and Litre (L) Primary 4 (Basic 4) Term 2 Week 8 Basic Science and Technology TOPIC: MEASURING THE VOLUME OF SOLID LEARNING AREA 1. Introductory Activities 2. Measuring the Volume of Regular Solid 3. Measuring the Volume of Irregular Solid 3. Lesson Evaluation and Weekly Assessment (Test) PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES By the end of the lesson, most of the pupils should have attained the following objectives – 1. identity the materials for measuring solids. 2. state metric units of weight. 3. measure the volume of regular and irregular solids accurately. 4. attempt the weekly assessment correctly. ENTRY BEHAVIOR The pupils can different between regular and irregular solid. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS The teacher will teach the lesson with the aid of: 1. Objects in the classroom e.g. cupboard, school box, books, etc. 2. Stone 3. Water 4. Metre rule 5. Tape 7. Rule 8. Beakers 9. Measuring cylinders. REFERENCE MATERIALS 9 – Years Basic Education Curriculum Lagos State Scheme of work Basic Science and Technology All Relevant Materials Online Materials CONTENT OF THE LESSON LESSON 1 – INTRODUCTION Objects are material things that can be seen and touched. There are various types of objects found in our environment. These have different shape and sizes. We have objects with regular and irregular shapes. Examples of regular objects are chairs, tables, books, pencils, chalk boxes, etc. While examples of irregular objects are the pieces of broken glass, a piece of stone, a broken piece of brick, leaf, etc. Objects occupied space. The space occupied by any object is known as volume. The volume of an object is the amount of space occupied by the object or shape. The metric units of a solid volume is cube metre (m³) and cube centimetre (cm³). MEASURING THE VOLUME OF REGULAR SOLIDS A regular solid shape has a length (L), breadth (B) and height (H). The volume of a regular solid objects = Length x Breadth X Height (m³). To measure the volume of a regular solid correctly, we need a ruler or measuring tape to measure and multiply the length, breadth and height together. GROUP OR PAIRS ACTIVITY 1 Teacher provides common regular solid shapes (such as dictionary, empty packet of indomine, etc.) to each of the groups/pairs and guides them – 1. identify the length, breadth and height of the shape and name them L, B and H. 2. measure and record the length, breadth and height as: L= ____ cm B = ____ cm H = ____ cm 3. multiply all the lengths together. 4. write your result as ____ cm³. LESSON 2 – MEASURING THE VOLUME OF IRREGULAR SOLID SHAPES The volume of an irregular solid objects = volume of object + water – volume of water (m³) To measure the volume of a small irregular solid, follow the steps below: 1. Put some water in a measuring graduated cup or cylinder. 2. Take the reading of the volume and record it. 3. Gently drop the object (i.e. irregular solid) into the liquid in the cylinder or cup. 4. Take the reading of the new volume and record it. 5. Substrate the first volume from the second volume. LESSON 3 – REVISION AND WEEKLY ASSESSMENT (TEST) PRESENTATION To deliver the lesson, the teacher adopts the following steps: 1. To introduce the lesson, the teacher revises the previous lesson. Based on this, he/she asks the pupils some questions; 2. Teacher organizes pupils in groups or pairs depending on the size of the class. 3. Teacher provides each group or pairs with different regular and irregular solid shapes. 4. Teacher guides the groups or pairs to identify unique different among the solid shapes. Pupil’s Activities – Examine the shapes, compare state and describe the shapes. 5. Teacher listens to the groups or pairs and uses their similar and reasonable responses to introduce the lesson – measuring the volume of solid shape. Pupil’s Activities – Pay attention to the lesson introduction to understand the concept of the lesson. 6. Teacher asks pupils to give examples of regular and irregular solid solid shapes in the classroom. Pupil’s Activities – Differentiate between regular and irregular solid objects with appropriate examples. 7. Teacher guides the groups or pairs to identify the length, breadth and height of the regular solid shapes. 8. Teacher provide the groups or pairs with rule and measuring tape, guide them to measure the length, breadth and height correctly. Pupil’s Activities – Identify the lengths of regular shapes and measure. them correctly. 9. Teacher asks pupils to multiply the lengths together. 10. Teacher tells pupils that, the result is known as volume of regular solid shape with accurate metric unit(s). Pupil’s Activities – Multiply the lengths together with appropriate metric unit. 11. Teacher lets pupils to know that, the measurement of irregular solid shape is different from regular solid shape. 12. Teacher provides each group or pair with a stone, writing materials and graduated cup or cylinder containing water. 13. Teacher guides the groups or pairs through the process of measuring irregular solid shape. Pupil’s Activities – Get the necessary materials and follow the teacher’s instructions to measure the volume of irregular solid objects. 14. Teacher celebrates the pupils for their active participation. Pupil’s Activities – Celebrate one another. 16. Summarizes the lesson on the board. Pupil’s Activities – Participate actively in the summary of the lesson and write as instructed. CONCLUSION To conclude the lesson for the week, the teacher revises the entire lesson and links it to the following week’s lesson. NEXT LESSON Measuring Time | Standard Units of Time | Instruments for Measuring Time Primary 4 (Basic 4) Term 2 Week 10 Basic Science and Technology LESSON EVALUATION Teacher asks pupils to: 1. measure the volume of regular solids such as small book, big book, matchbox, empty box of square, etc. 2. measure the volume of irregular solids stone, sand, etc. 3. Find the volume of the solid whose L = 5 cm, B = 2 cm and H = 5 cm L = 10 m, B = 2 m and H = 5 m L = 8 cm, B = 4 cm and H = 12 cm 4. Find the length of a shape whose breadth is 4 cm, height is 2 cm and volume is 24 cm³. Related Posts Third Term Examination Yoruba Junior Secondary Schools – JSS 2 (Basic 8) Exam Questions Music Staff (Steve) – Meaning and Uses of Music Staff (Steve) Primary 2 (Basic 2) Week 4 and Week 5 Cultural and Creative Arts Fractions, Decimals and Percentages Primary 5 (Basic 5) – Mathematics About The Author Alabi M. S. Michael is Principal Education Officer at LASUBEB. With 15+ years experience in teaching and learning, He loves talking about Plan Lesson Notes and Quality Assurance in Education. He also believes teachers inspire our future. CRN (ClassRoomNotes) is a website FOR TEACHERS BY TEACHER, and He aims to continuously inform and encourage teaching! All materials are subject to TERMLY review. Search for Topics Subject Categories Academic Calendar AI Plan Lesson Notes Exam Questions (3) First Term Examination Goodreads Lesson Notes (3) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Scheme of Work (2) Second Term Examination Third Term Examination (10) Start Young Retire Rich Start driving with Bolt and earn ₦10,000 on top of your rides revenue. Sign up with my referral code MICHAELA24234 PLAN LESSON NOTES First Term Lessons Week 1 | Week 2 | Week 3 | Week 4 | Week 5 | Week 6 | Week 6 | Week 7 – Mid Term Break | Week 8 | Week 9 | Week 10 | Week 11 Second Term Lessons Third Term Lessons EXAM QUESTIONS First Term Exam Questions Second Term Exam Questions Third Term Exam Questions SCHOOL CALENDARS 2025/2026 Academic Calendar 2024/2025 Academic Calendar 2023/2024 Academic Calendar 2022/2023 Academic Calendar 2021/2022 Academic Calendar 2020/2021 Academic Calendar ABOUT US About Me ClassRoomNote Contact Us Privacy Policy ShowLove Dashboard TRUST + Teacher Handbook Grade Levels and Steps GoodRead Lost But Found OUR SITES Eko Fun Quizzes PRIMARY LESSON NOTES Primary 1 (Basic 1) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 2 (Basic 2) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 3 (Basic 3) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 4 (Basic 4) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 5 (Basic 5) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 6 (Basic 6) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes – ClassRoom Lesson Notes Copyright | CRN Theme by ClassRoomNotes Back to Top ↑