Skip to content ClassRoomNotes CRN is a classroom Teaching and Learning Materials for Teachers by Teachers to continuously inform and encourage teaching. Welcome Plan Lesson Notes. Term 3 Holiday Starts July 28th – Ends Sept 12th, 2025 Happy Holiday!!! Getting Ready for First Term Lessons Notes | First Term Exam Questions | How I spent my Last Holiday | LASUBEB 2025 Unified Timetable | Approved Y2025 – Y2026 Harmonized Academic Calendar Lagos State Pdf Free Download | Join Us @080WhatsApp | 080 Telegram and WhatsApp Channel Menu Home Scheme of Work (2) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Lesson Notes (3) Exam Questions (3) First Term Exam Second Term Exam Third Term Exam (10) Goodreads Donation!!! Privacy Policy Home AI Plan Lesson Notes The Human Circulatory System (The Human Heart) – Meaning of Circulatory System | The Structure and Functions of the Heart Primary 6 (BASIC 6) Term 1 Week 4 Basic Science and Technology The Human Circulatory System (The Human Heart) – Meaning of Circulatory System | The Structure and Functions of the Heart Primary 6 (BASIC 6) Term 1 Week 4 Basic Science and Technology BASIC SCIENCE BASIC SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY (BST) FIRST TERM WEEK 4 PRIMARY 6 (BASIC 6) THEME: THE HUMAN BODY PREVIOUS LESSON – Improving Crops Yield – Growing Crops with Compost and Chemical Fertilizer | Conditions for Growing Better Crops | Importance of Fertilizers to the Soil Primary 6 (Basic 6) Term 1 Week 3 Basic Science and Technology or Improving Crop Yield – Food and Cash Crops – Population and Economic Consequences – ASEI PDSI METHOD (Primary 6) TOPIC – THE HUMAN CIRCULATORY SYSTEM (THE HUMAN HEART) LEARNING AREA 1. The Human Heart 2. The Structure of the Heart 3. The Functions of the Heart 4. Revision and Weekly Assessment Test PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES By the end of the lesson, the pupils should have attained the following objectives (cognitive, affective and psychomotor) and be able to: 1. explain the meaning of circulatory system. 2. name and identity some the parts of the human heart. 3. state some basic functions of the human heart. ENTRY BEHAVIOR The pupils can identity and describe the human heart. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS The teacher will teach the lesson with the aid of model of the human heart METHOD OF TEACHING Choose a suitable and appropriate methods for the lessons. Note – Irrespective of choosing methods of teaching, always introduce an activities that will arouse pupil’s interest or lead them to the lessons. REFERENCE MATERIALS 1. Scheme of Work 2. 9 – Years Basic Education Curriculum 3. LiveScience 4. Foundation of Basic Science and Technology Book 6 5. MacMillan Basic Science and Technology Book 6 6. All Relevant Material 7. Online Information – The Human Circulatory System – ASEI PDSI METHOD (Primary 6) CONTENT OF THE LESSON LESSON 1 – INTRODUCTION (MEANING OF CIRCULATORY SYSTEM) The circulatory system is a network of organs and vessels that circulate blood throughout the body. It is made of independent systems that work together. These systems are the heart (cardiovascular), lungs (pulmonary), and arteries, veins, coronary and portal vessels (systemic). Circulatory System Diagram The key components of circulatory system are the heart, which pumps blood, and blood vessels (arteries, veins, and capillaries) that carry blood to and from the heart. Circulatory system delivers essential substances like oxygen and nutrients to cells and removes waste products. THE HUMAN HEART The human heart is an organ that pumps blood throughout the body via the circulatory system, supplying oxygen and nutrients to the tissues and removing carbon dioxide and other wastes. HOMEWORK – Draw and lebel the structure of the heart. LESSON 2 – STRUCTURE OF THE HEART The human heart has a four-chambered structure consisting of two atria (right and left) and two ventricles (right and left). The right atrium and right ventricle together make up the “right heart,” and the left atrium and left ventricle make up the “left heart.” A wall of muscle called the septum separates the two sides of the heart. The heart also has a network of blood vessels including arteries and veins that transport blood throughout the body. HOMEWORK – Find out the functions of the heart. LESSON 3 – FUNCTIONS OF THE HEART The functions of the heart are as follows – 1. It is a muscular and pumping organ. 2. It pumps blood to other parts of the body. 3. It delivers oxygen and nutrients to the body. 4. It removes waste products from the body. 5. It maintains adequate blood pressure that’s necessary for proper blood circulation. 6. It regular the heart rate. 7. It circulates hormones and other vital substances throughout the body. 8. The pumping action keep human being alive. PRESENTATION To deliver the lesson, the teacher adopts the following steps: 1. To introduce the lesson, the teacher revises the previous lesson by asking the pupils questions based on what he/she has taught and why they have learnt. 2. Teacher organizes the pupils into two or more groups depending on the size of the class. 3. Teacher displays chart/poster showing human circulatory system for the pupils to identify and describe the flow of blood throughout the body. Pupil’s Activities – The pupils identify and describe the flow of blood throughout the body. 4. Teacher uses the chart/model and the pupils relevant responses to introduce the lesson, leads a class discussion on the meaning of circulatory system. Pupil’s Activities – The pupils pay attention to the lesson introduction and participate actively in the class discussion on the meaning of circulatory system. 5. Teacher uses chart showing the human heart or a model of human heart to lead a class discussion on the structure and functions of the heart. Pupil’s Activities – The pupils participate actively in the class discussion and appreciate the important functions of the human heart to other parts of the body. 6. Teacher asks the pupils to draw and label the structure of the heart. Pupil’s Activities – The pupils draw and label the structure of the heart. 7. Teacher summarizes the lesson on the board with appropriate evaluation. Pupil’s Activities – The pupils participate actively in the summary of the lesson by responding correctly to most of the questions write as instructed. CONCLUSION To conclude the lesson for the week, the teacher revises the entire lesson and links it to the following week’s lesson – revision of first term’s lesson. Next Lesson – The Human Circulatory System (Circulation of Blood) – Meaning and Functions of the blood Vessel | Different Between Arteries, Veins and Capillaries Primary 6 (BASIC 6) Term 1 Week 5 Basic Science and Technology LESSON EVALUATION Teacher asks pupils to: 1. define the human circulatory system. 2. draw and describe the human heart. 3. draw and label the structure of the heart. 4. briefly describe the structure of the heart. 5. state 5 functions each of the heart. WEEKLY ASSESSMENT TEST INSTRUCTION – Attempt any 10 questions. Question 11 and 12 are compulsory. 1. _____ is a network of organs and vessels that circulate blood throughout the body. A. Circulatory system B. Computer system C. Heart system 2. Circulatory system is made of _____ that work together. A. different system B. dependent system C. independent systems 3. The human heart is an organ that pumps _____ throughout the body. A. blood B. heart C. organ 4. The circulatory system supplies _____ and _____ to the tissues. A. oxygen and carbon dioxide B. oxygen and nutrients C. carbon dioxide and nutrients 5. _____ removes carbon dioxide and other wastes. A. Circulatory system B. Computer system C. Heart system 6. _____ has a network of blood vessels including arteries and veins that transport blood throughout the body. A. The heart B. The organ C. The system 7. The human heart has a _____ chambered structure consisting of two atria (right and left) and two ventricles (right and left). A. 2 B. 4 C. 8 State 3 functions of the human heart. 8. __________ 9. __________ 10. __________ 11. Draw and label the structure of the heart. 12. Draw and describe the human heart. Related Posts Duties of Security Agencies – Functions of Nigerian Prison Service (Primary 2) Meaning and Importance of Agriculture | Types of Agricultural Practices | Forms of Agricultural Activities JSS 1 Agriculture Introduction to Singing Primary 3 (Basic 3) – Cultural and Creative Arts About The Author Alabi M. S. Michael is Principal Education Officer at LASUBEB. With 15+ years experience in teaching and learning, He loves talking about Plan Lesson Notes and Quality Assurance in Education. He also believes teachers inspire our future. CRN (ClassRoomNotes) is a website FOR TEACHERS BY TEACHER, and He aims to continuously inform and encourage teaching! All materials are subject to TERMLY review. Search for Topics Subject Categories Academic Calendar AI Plan Lesson Notes Exam Questions (3) First Term Examination Goodreads Lesson Notes (3) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Scheme of Work (2) Second Term Examination Third Term Examination (10) Start Young Retire Rich Start driving with Bolt and earn ₦10,000 on top of your rides revenue. Sign up with my referral code MICHAELA24234 PLAN LESSON NOTES First Term Lessons Week 1 | Week 2 | Week 3 | Week 4 | Week 5 | Week 6 | Week 6 | Week 7 – Mid Term Break | Week 8 | Week 9 | Week 10 | Week 11 Second Term Lessons Third Term Lessons EXAM QUESTIONS First Term Exam Questions Second Term Exam Questions Third Term Exam Questions SCHOOL CALENDARS 2025/2026 Academic Calendar 2024/2025 Academic Calendar 2023/2024 Academic Calendar 2022/2023 Academic Calendar 2021/2022 Academic Calendar 2020/2021 Academic Calendar ABOUT US About Me ClassRoomNote Contact Us Privacy Policy ShowLove Dashboard TRUST + Teacher Handbook Grade Levels and Steps GoodRead Lost But Found OUR SITES Eko Fun Quizzes PRIMARY LESSON NOTES Primary 1 (Basic 1) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 2 (Basic 2) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 3 (Basic 3) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 4 (Basic 4) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 5 (Basic 5) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 6 (Basic 6) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes – ClassRoom Lesson Notes Copyright | CRN Theme by ClassRoomNotes Back to Top ↑