Skip to content ClassRoomNotes CRN is a classroom Teaching and Learning Materials for Teachers by Teachers to continuously inform and encourage teaching. Welcome Plan Lesson Notes. Term 3 Holiday Starts July 28th – Ends Sept 12th, 2025 Happy Holiday!!! Getting Ready for First Term Lessons Notes | First Term Exam Questions | How I spent my Last Holiday | LASUBEB 2025 Unified Timetable | Approved Y2025 – Y2026 Harmonized Academic Calendar Lagos State Pdf Free Download | Join Us @080WhatsApp | 080 Telegram and WhatsApp Channel Menu Home Scheme of Work (2) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Lesson Notes (3) Exam Questions (3) First Term Exam Second Term Exam Third Term Exam (10) Goodreads Donation!!! Privacy Policy Home AI Plan Lesson Notes The Solar System – The Natural Body in Our Solar System | The Sun and The Nine Planets | Gravity and Weightlessness Primary 6 (Basic 6) Term 2 Week 5 Basic Science and Technology The Solar System – The Natural Body in Our Solar System | The Sun and The Nine Planets | Gravity and Weightlessness Primary 6 (Basic 6) Term 2 Week 5 Basic Science and Technology BASIC SCIENCE BASIC SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY SECOND TERM WEEK 5 BASIC 6 PREVIOUS LESSON – The Earth’s Movement – Rotation and Revolution | Relationship between the Sun, Moon and Earth | Eclipse of the Sun | The Earth Source of Light Primary 6 (Basic 6) Term 2 Week 4 Basic Science and Technology TOPIC: THE SOLAR SYSTEM LEARNING AREA 1. Introduction 2. The Natural Bodies in Our Solar System 3. The Sun and The Planets 4. Gravity and Weightlessness 5. Lesson Evaluation and Weekly Assessment (Test) PERFORMANCE OBJECTIVES By the end of the lesson, most of the pupils should have attained the following objectives – 1. identify and name some planets in our Solar System; 2. identify the components of the solar system their location and importance; 3. state the relationships among the earth, sun, moon other planets and the stars; 4. demonstrate that the earth exerts a pull on objects and bodies. ENTRY BEHAVIOR The pupils can identify the sun, moon, stars and earth. INSTRUCTIONAL MATERIALS The teacher will teach the lesson with the aid of picture  of: 1. people in space, 2. chart showing the solar system, 3. paper, glue/gum, scissors, clay, cardboard, stone, duster, ruler, strings, balls of different sizes. METHOD OF TEACHING Choose a suitable and appropriate methods for the lessons. Note – Irrespective of choosing methods of teaching, always introduce an activities that will arouse pupil’s interest or lead them to the lessons. REFERENCE MATERIALS Scheme of Work 9 – Years Basic Education Curriculum MacMillan Basic Science and Technology for Basic 6 Foundation of Basic Science and Technology Book 6 Online Materials – The Solar System – The Natural Body in Our Solar System – The Sun and The Nine Planets – Gravity and Weightlessness – ASEI PDSI METHOD (Primary 6) CONTENT OF THE LESSON LESSON 1 – INTRODUCTION The solar system comprises of the sun and the nine (9) planets that move around it. The earth is the third planet and the only that living things are found. NATURAL BODIES IN THE SKY The sky is the space above the earth, the components of the sky are: 1. The cloud 2. The sun 3. The moon 4. The stars LESSON 2 – RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE EARTH AND THE PLANETARY BODIES The earth The world we live in is called the earth. Scientist discovered that it is spherical like an orange. The earth is divided into three parts: The atmosphere (The sky) It made up of gasses that envelope or surround the the planet earth. The cloud, the stars, the moon and the sun are found in the atmosphere. The rainfall, thunder and lightening occur there. The air we breath in and out is part of the atmosphere. The hydrosphere (The Water) It is the part of the earth covered by water. Hydrosphere includes streams, rivers, lakes, lagoons, seas and oceans. Hydrosphere covers 70% of the total earth’s surface. The lithosphere (The Land) It is the solid part of the earth where soil, rocks, plants and animals are found. The sun The Sun is at the center of the solar system. It is a larger star and the main source of energy on the earth. The moon – the moon is the earth only natural satellite. Just like the sun, it is round and gives light to the earth at night through the reflection of the sun. The stars – Just like the sun, the stars produced light by themselves like the sun and also give light to the earth at night. The cloud It is a great mass of matter which contain tiny drops of water. It is usually while or grey in colour. LESSON 3 – THE PLANETS Earth, our home, is the third planet from the sun. It is the only planet known to have an atmosphere containing free oxygen, oceans of liquid water on its surface, and, of course, life. THE NINE (9) PLANETS 1. Mercury 2. Venus 3.. Earth 4. Mars 5. Jupiter 6. Saturn 7. Uranus 8. Neptune 9. Pluto GRAVITY AND WEIGHTLESSNESS IN SPACE Have you discovered that whatever you throw up comes back to the ground? What responsible for this? That’s called gravity or gravitational force. Gravity is the force that draws any objects toward its center. It is also called attractive force that keeps you on the ground. The force keeps all of the planets in orbit around the sun. THE FORCE OF GRAVITY There is a force in the centre of the earth that attracts things to the surface of the earth in the same way that magnets attract some metals. Without the force of gravity, we will not be able to walk upright. If we jump up we will not be able to come back to the earth. We will just float about like a very light paper. PRESENTATION To deliver the lesson, the teacher adopts the following steps: 1. To introduce the lesson, the teacher revises the previous lesson. Based on this, he/she asks the pupils some questions; 2. Displays chart showing the earth with the sun, moon and stars. 3. Lets pupils identify and name the content of the chart. 4. Displays another chart showing the relationship between the earth and other natural bodies. 3. Lets pupils identify some of the natural body like the sun, moon, stars, etc. 4. Uses chart pupils to introduce the lesson and guides them identify and name – Name natural bodies in our solar system such as stars, moon, sun and Planets. Describe the characteristic features of planets and also mention the new status of Pluto. State the relationships among stars, planets, sun, moon, etc.; Pupil’s Activities – Name natural bodies that can be found in our Solar System; Model the solar system and name the planets. 5. Plays a short video showing people in the space. 6. Displays another chart/picture showing people in space. 7. Uses picture of people in space and on Earth and other simple activities to illustrate the existence and effect of gravity on Objects. Pupil’s Activities – Observe photographs of people walking in space and on land, compare them. 8. Uses Charts (or balls of various sizes placed on concentric circles) to show the location of planet Earth and other planets within our Solar System; Pupil’s Activities – Throw stones, dusters, etc. vertically and describe what happens. 9. Summarizes each lesson on the board. Pupil’s Activities – Pay attention to the summary and write as instructed. CONCLUSION To conclude the lesson for the week, the teacher revises the entire lesson and links it to the following week’s lesson. Next Lesson – LESSON EVALUATION Teacher asks pupils to: 1. identify natural bodies that can be found in our Solar System, their location and Importance. 2. name the Planets. 3. state some relationships among the earth, planets, stars, sun, and moon. 4. demonstrate the earth’s pull on objects. Related Posts Introduction to Collage – Meaning and Materials for Making Collages (Primary 5) Ball Games – Safety Rules in Table Tennis, Football and Basketball Primary 3 Basic 3 (Basic 3) Term 2 Week 5 Physical and Health Education Second Term Civic Education Plan Lesson Notes According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary 3 (Basic 3) Lesson Notes About The Author Alabi M. S. Michael is Principal Education Officer at LASUBEB. With 15+ years experience in teaching and learning, He loves talking about Plan Lesson Notes and Quality Assurance in Education. He also believes teachers inspire our future. CRN (ClassRoomNotes) is a website FOR TEACHERS BY TEACHER, and He aims to continuously inform and encourage teaching! All materials are subject to TERMLY review. Search for Topics Subject Categories Academic Calendar AI Plan Lesson Notes Exam Questions (3) First Term Examination Goodreads Lesson Notes (3) Plan Lesson Notes (6) Scheme of Work (2) Second Term Examination Third Term Examination (10) Start Young Retire Rich Start driving with Bolt and earn ₦10,000 on top of your rides revenue. Sign up with my referral code MICHAELA24234 PLAN LESSON NOTES First Term Lessons Week 1 | Week 2 | Week 3 | Week 4 | Week 5 | Week 6 | Week 6 | Week 7 – Mid Term Break | Week 8 | Week 9 | Week 10 | Week 11 Second Term Lessons Third Term Lessons EXAM QUESTIONS First Term Exam Questions Second Term Exam Questions Third Term Exam Questions SCHOOL CALENDARS 2025/2026 Academic Calendar 2024/2025 Academic Calendar 2023/2024 Academic Calendar 2022/2023 Academic Calendar 2021/2022 Academic Calendar 2020/2021 Academic Calendar ABOUT US About Me ClassRoomNote Contact Us Privacy Policy ShowLove Dashboard TRUST + Teacher Handbook Grade Levels and Steps GoodRead Lost But Found OUR SITES Eko Fun Quizzes PRIMARY LESSON NOTES Primary 1 (Basic 1) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 2 (Basic 2) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 3 (Basic 3) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 4 (Basic 4) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 5 (Basic 5) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes Primary 6 (Basic 6) Plan Lesson Notes and Exam Questions According to the the Lagos State Scheme of Work for Primary Schools Lesson Notes – ClassRoom Lesson Notes Copyright | CRN Theme by ClassRoomNotes Back to Top ↑