###Basic Science and Technology | Primary/Basic 3 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of 1st term work
Objectives: Revision of 1st tem work
Week: 2(Basic Science)
Topic: Air In Motion I -Wind -Meaning of wind -Effects of wind
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of wind; ii. describe the effect of wind on human and non-living things balloons,windmill etc) ; iii. demonstate how wind works.
Week: (IT)
Topic: System Application -Microsoft office -Encarta -Games -Mavis Beacon
Objectives: i. Explain the term system application ii. Identify the various types of system application
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Ball Games -Football
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. List basic skill fooball e.g (Passing, kicking, trapping, treading and throwing) ii. Demonstrate the basic skill in football (easing, heading, kicking and tapping throwing) iii. Perform some basic skill and techniques in football perfectly e.g läcking, trapping, and shooting etc
Week: 3(Basic Science)
Topic: Air in Motion Il -Harmful effects of wind
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify the useful effect of wind ii. explainthe harmful effect of wind on living and non-living things. iii. demostrate the bad effect of wind.
Week: (IT)
Topic: System Application -Microsoft office -Mavis Beacon
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. identify the various types of system application.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Ball Games -Safety rules in football
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. Explain safety rules in football games ii. Describe the safety rules in football games.
Week: 4(Basic Science)
Topic: Water -Uses of water -sources of water -conposition of water
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. explain the method of obtaining water in their localities ii. sources of water iii. examine the composition of water iv. describe uses of water v. analyze the importance of water.
Week: (IT)
Topic: Difference between hardware and software
Objectives: -Compare and contrast between hardware and software
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Tennis
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils i. Discuss the brief histoty of tennis ii. Mention the basic skills in tennis e.g forehand drive, backhand drive, service etc. iii. Demonstrate the basic skills in tennis e.g service, forehand drive.backhand drive etc
Week: 5(Basic Science)
Topic: Qualities of water -Meaning of water -Qualifies of good/pure -Contamination of water -Dangers of drinking bad water
Objectives: By the end of the leson, pupils should be able to i. mention the methods of determining good quality water from their past ii. the qualities of good water iii. differentiate between good and bad water, iv. list the qualities of good water; v. substances that can contaminate water making it unfit for use; vi. discuss the dangers of drinkng bad water.
Week: (IT)
Topic: Components of CPU -Control Unit
Objectives: i. Outline the various component of the CPU ii. Define control unit iii. Outline the function of the control unit
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Tennis Safety rules
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i) Demonstrate the basic skills e,g grip, service, forehand drive ji) Demonstrate the back hand dnve perfectly iii) Mention the safety rules in Tennis garne iv) State the safety rules in basic skills and techniques of tennis game
Week: 6(Basic Science)
Topic: Water – Purifying water -Reasons for purifying water -Methods of purifications
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify the reason for purifying water; ii. explain different various methods of purifying water like boiling filtering, adding alum etc; iii. demonstrate med10ds of purifying water
Week: (IT)
Topic: Components of CPU -Arithmetic -Login Unit -Storage Unit
Objectives: i. Explain the term Arithmetic ii. Login Unit and Storage unit iii. Outline the function of Arithmetic Login Unit and storage Unit
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM- ASSESSMENT
Objectives: MID-TERM- ASSESSMENT
Week: 8(Basic Science)
Topic: Water – Packaged water -Reasons for packaging -Samples of packaged water -Features of safe packaged water
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. compare packaged hater with unpackaged ones; ii. identify different packaged water, iii. discuss reasons for packaging water iv. describe the features of safe packaged water
Week: (IT)
Topic: Components of CPU -Arithmetic Login unit -Storage Unit
Objectives: i. Explain the term arithemetic ii. Login Unit and Storage unit iii. Outline the function of Arithmetic Login Unit and storage Unit
Week: 8-9(PHE)
Topic: Ball game -Basket ball
Objectives: By the end of the lesson; pupils should be i) Narrate the brief history of Basket ball ii) Demonstrate the basic skills in basketball game iii. List the basic skills and techniques in basketball game iv. Differentiate between facilities and equipment in basketball game v. Safety rules in basketball games
Week: 9(Basic Science)
Topic: Soil I – Imporünce to plants -Componens of the soil, -Uses of soil to plants
Objectives: By the end of tie lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify’ the components of soil; ii. discuss the uses of soil to plants: iii. Medium for plant to grow iv. Sources of nutrients and air v. demonstrate the planting of the secd in the soil
Week: (IT)
Topic: Input devices -Mouse -Keyboard -Scanner -Flash drive -Hard drive etc
Objectives: i. Define input devices ii. Outline the functions of the various types of input devices
Week: 10(Basic Science)
Topic: Soil Il- Importance to animals -Animal in the soil. -Uses of soil to animals
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify animals living in the soil (earthworms etc); ii. discuss the uses of soil to animals: iii. surface for human activities like farming, building, pottery making etc.; iv. highlight the nutrients animals derive from the soil
Week: (IT)
Topic: Launching of Microsoft word
Objectives: Locate and launch Microsoft word
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
