###Basic Science and Technology | Primary/Basic 1 | Third Term
Week: 1(Basic Science)
Topic: Readiness test & revision of 2nd term work
Objectives: 
Week: (IT)
Topic: Revision of Last Term’s work
Objectives: 
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Health and hygiene
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. explain how to wash hands properly, ii. demonstrate how to bath; iii. describe how to care for the skin correctly.
Week: 2(Basic Science)
Topic: Simple machine -Definition of simple machine -Example of simple machines
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. define simple machines; ii. name examples of simple machines; iii. classify simple machine used at school and at home; iv. analyse the importance of simple machlnes.
Week: 2-3(IT)
Topic: Booting -Meaning of booting -Ways of booting
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. explain booting ii. outline and explain ways of booting.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: TEETH BRUSHING
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be ablé to; i. list the items use in cleaning the mouth; ii. demonstrate how to brush the teeth correctly; iii. explain why it is necessary for us to brush our teeth.
Week: 3(Basic Science)
Topic: Simple Machine -The Safe use of simple machine
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. cxplain how to safety use simple machines; ii. demonstrate the use of simple machines in a safe way; iii. analyse the dangers of not being precautious when using simple machines.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Care of the Nails and Hair
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupil should able to: i. describe how to cut our nails; ii. mention ways of maintaining the hair; iii. describe the materials use in maintaining hair.
Week: 4(Basic Science)
Topic: Concept of technology -Meaning and benefit
Objectives: By the of the lesson. pupils should be able to. i. explain the meaning of technology ii. state the benefit of technology; iii. describe how things are done before and now.
Week: 4-5(IT)
Topic: Steps of booting -Warm booting -Cold booting
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupil should able to: i. carry our the two steps
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Cleanliness
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i. mention the benefits of cleaning our body; ii. explain the benefits of cleaning our body.
Week: 5(Basic Science)
Topic: Technology in home : – Electric Gadget
Objectives: By the end of the lesson. pupils should be able to: i. explain what electricity is; ii. identify some appliances that use electricity. iii. create electrical gadget e.g toy car, torch light using battery etc.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: First Aid
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i. explain the meaning of first aid; ii. explain who is a first aider; iii. way how to become a first aider.
Week: 6(Basic Science)
Topic: Technology in Transportation: Land, Air (vehicle, train, airplane)
Objectives: By end of the lesson, pupils should able to: i. compare old means of transportation and the new one; ii. mention means of transportation by land; iii. analyze transportation by air; iv. contrast between transportation by air and transportation by land.
Week: (IT)
Topic: My desktop -Start menu -Taskbar -Desktop background -Icons etc.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i. identify the various featres on the desktop; ii. differentiate between features of desktop.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: First Aid
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. state the basic objective First Aid; ii. list the content of First Aid; iii. identify the content in First.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8(Basic Science)
Topic: Transportation: Water
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i) explain modes of transportation by water e.g yatch, ship, submarine etc, ii. analyse the advantages of transportation by water. iii. mention the disadvantages of water transportation.
Week: (IT)
Topic: My desktop -Start menu -Taskbar -Desktop background -Icons etc
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. identify the various features on the desktop; ii. differentiate between features of desktop.
Week: 8-9(PHE)
Topic: Content of First Aid
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. list the content of first Aid Box; ii. explain the use of each content in First Aid Box. iii. make their own First Aid Box; iv. demonstrate how a first Aid works.
Week: 9(Basic Science)
Topic: EXPLORING YOUR ENVIRONMENT I i.Things in the classroom ii.Things around the school and at home.
Objectives: By thc end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. observe and identify things in the classroom; ii. idcntify things around the school and mention things at home: iii. analyze things at home.
Week: 9-10(IT)
Topic: Personalizing my computer -Wallpaper -Screensaver -Theme -Time and date settings etc.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. experiment the various ways of personalizing your desktop using available theme. wallpaper etc.
Week: 10(Basic Science)
Topic: EXPLORINGYOUR ENVIRONMENT II i. type of road within and outside the school; ii. functions of each road
Objectives: By the end of the lesson. pupils should be able to: i. analse types of road around the school; ii. classify type of roads outside the school; iii explain the functions of roads.
Week: 10-11(PHE)
Topic: Benefit of first aid
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. list the benefit of first aid; ii. explain the benefit of first aid treatment; iii. identify First Aid Contents
Week: 11(Basic Science)
Topic: EXPLORING YOUR ENVIRONMENT III -Walking along the roads and crossing the roads -Traflic light signs
Objectives: By the end of the lesson„ pupils should be able to: i. demonstrate the right and wrong way of walking on the road; ii. what to do (rules) when crossing the roads; iii. identify the traffic light signs.
Week: (IT)
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12-13
Topic: REVISION AND EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION AND EXAMINATION
