###Basic Science and Technology | Primary/Basic 4 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Rediness Test/ Revision Test for First Term Work
Objectives: Rediness Test/ Revision Test for First Term Work
Week: 2(Basic Science)
Topic: SOIL -Meaning of soil -Types of soil -Soil Constituent – Uses of soil
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of soil ii. classify different types of soil iii. generate soil constituent iv. explain the importance of soil, agriculture, building etc
Week: PHE
Topic: TRACK EVENT -Long distance races i. types of long distance races. 300m, 500m ii. steeple chase in long distance races -standing -take off -running -arm action -finish
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. list the types of long distance races ii. mention skills in long distance races iii. demonstrate long distance races
Week: IT
Topic: Typing and Saving on Microsoft Powerpoint
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. type and save a composition about themselves
Week: 3(Basic Science)
Topic: SOIL(II) GROWING OF PLANTS -Soil preparation -Planting and nurturing of plants
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain soil preparation ii. explainhow plants are planted and nurtured
Week: PHE
Topic: TRACK EVENT -Long distance races i. types of long distance races. 300m, 500m ii. steeple chase in long distance races -standing -take off -running -arm action -finish
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. list the types of long distance races ii. mention skills in long distance races iii. demonstrate long distance races
Week: IT
Topic: Typing and saving on Microsoft Power Point
Objectives: Type and save a short composition about themselves
Week: 4(Basic Science)
Topic: SOIL (Il): GROWING OF PLANTS -Plant preparation. -Planting and nurturing of plants.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain soil preparation; ii. write how crops are planted and nurtured.
Week: PHE
Topic: ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH I. Meaning of waste disposal -Sewage disposal -Refuse disposal
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define waste disposal ii. Mention types of waste disposal iii. Explain the types of waste disposal
Week: IT
Topic: Formatting
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Load the saved composition and format it
Week: 5(Basic Science)
Topic: MIXTURE -Definition of mixture -Examples of common mixtures: cereal and milk, flour and butter. cream and sugar, coffee and cream, and tea. -Examples of other mixtures: Dirt and water, sand, water and gravel, smoke and fog. -Reason for mixtures: fomation of new things and materials
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of mixture; ii. enumerate examples of common mixtures; iii. discuss other examples of mixtures, iv. Explain how mixtures form new things and materials.
Week: PHE
Topic: Physical fitness -Meaning of physical fitness -Physical fitness -Exercises e.g. Push, squat, bend, sit up etc.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define Physical Fitness ii. Mention types ofexercises in physical fitness iii. list the importance of physical fitness iv. Demonstrate physical fitness exercise
Week: IT
Topic: Virus -Types of Virus -Causes of Virus
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain virus ii. Outline the different types of virus and their causes
Week: 6(Basic Science)
Topic: TECHNOLOGY(I) -Definition of technology -Importance of technology
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. State the meaning of technology; ii. Write out the importance of technology
Week: PHE
Topic: Games: Basketball Skills: -Dribbling, -Bouncing, -Throwing, -catting, -Passing
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention the Skills in basketball game ii. demonstrate the skills in basket ball game
Week: IT
Topic: -Anti- virus -Types of anti -virus
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain anti – virus ii. Outline the different types of anti virus
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8(Basic Science)
Topic: TECHNOLOGY(II) Products of technology
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention and identify the products of technology; ii. draw some products of technology; iii. give examples of some inventors and the technology they invented.
Week: PHE
Topic: Game (Basketball Court) Rules Regulations Officials
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention the rules governing the game of basketball ii. List officials in basketball game
Week: IT
Topic: Wnat is coding? should I leam to code?
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. describe coding, and why it is important to learn it.
Week: 9(Basic Science)
Topic: MEASUREMENT (MEASURING LIQUIDS). -Materials for measuring liquids. -Metric units for measuring liquids: mm -Measurin the volume off uids. -improvise a measuring cylinde
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. identify materials for measuring liquids; ii. enumerate the metnc units of volume; iii. measure liquids accurately; iv. improvise a measunng cylinder with estimated scales for volumes in metric units.
Week: PHE
Topic: GYMNASTICS: Basic Movement in gymnastics, -Walking. -Running, -Hopping, -Jumping, -Twisting Apparatus activities, -Swinging, bars. Floor and Box activities Walking: beam balance -parallel bar mmel horse
Objectives: By the end of tho lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Mention floor activities ii. Mention apparatus activities iii. Demonstrate floor and apparatus activities
Week: IT
Topic: Coding What is coding? Why should I learn to code?
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. describe coding, and why it is important to leam It
Week: 10(Basic Science)
Topic: MEASUREMENT (MEASURING SOLIDS AND TIME) Matenals for measuring solids and time. -Metric units for measuring solids and time -Measuring solids and time.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify materials for measuring solids and time; ii. state the metric units of weight and time; iii. measure solids and time accurately;
Week: PHE
Topic: FOOD/NUTRITION -Meaning of Nutrition -Importance of Nutrition -Nutritional deficiency (i)Kwashiorkor (ii)Rick etc. (iii) pelegra
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able b: i. Define Nutrition ii. State the Importance of Nutrition iii. Mention Diseases that are associated with insufficient nutrients
Week: IT
Topic: Use of Coding
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils shoul be able to: i. Explain tho use of coding In relations to what students can relate with such as Computer, Game, Website, Application etc
Week: 11(Basic Science)
Topic: SHAPE CONSRUCTION WITH PAPER(I) -Concept of shape construction -Materials for shape construction. (paper, metal and wood) Construction of shapes using paper
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of shape construction; ii. write out the materials used for shape construction: iii. construct shapes using paper.
Week: PHE
Topic: SAFETY AT HOME AND SCHOOL -Home -School to and from
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define safety ii. state different types of safety measures at home school
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
