###Basic Science & Technology | Primary/Basic 1 | First Term
Week: 1(Basic Science)
Topic: LIVING THINGS -Meaning of living things x thing things in the school environment. -Living things in the school environment.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson„ pupils should be able to: i. Explain living things as things that have can bmathe, cat, move, reproduce etc.; ii. analyse examples of living thing; iii. Identify living things in school environment.
Week: 1-2(IT)
Topic: BASIC COMPUTER -What is a computer. – Use of computer in a society.
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson„ pupils should be able to: i. Define a computer ii. outline the use of the computer in various aspect of the society.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Movement: Movement of our body part.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils sould be able to i. Demostate correct patern in movement e.g leaping, hopping, running, stepping etc. ii. perform basic manipulative movement e.g catching of objects, throwing of objects, striking of objects. iii. Identify the safety rules in walking, kicking, pushing, jogging etc.
Week: 2(Basic Science)
Topic: LIVING THINGS II
Objectives: By the end of the lesson. pupils be able to: i. explain things that are living things, ii. mention living things at home. ii. evaluate characteristics of living things at home;
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Moving our body parts
Objectives: By the end of the lesson. pupils should be able to; i. Describe the correct patterns of movement e.g leaping, hopping, running, stepping etc. ii. Demonstrate different patterns of movement. Leaping, hopping, running, stepping. iii. state the basic pattern in movement.
Week: 3 (Basic Science)
Topic: NON-LIVING THINGS -Meaning of non-living things -Non-living things in the classroom. -Non-livimg things at home.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson. pupils should be able to; i. describe non-living things as things that has no life: they do not breath, move, eat or reproduce; ii. mention examples of non-living things in the school; iii. identify non-living things at home; iv. analyze the reason non living things at home and in school cannot eat, breath, reproduce or move.
Week: 3-4(IT)
Topic: PART OF THE COMPUTER -Description of part of the computer
Objectives: By the end of the lesson. pupils should be able to; i. recognize and name the various part of the computer.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: MOVEMENT:(Throwing)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson. pupils should be able to; i. demostrate the throwing of an object correctly; ii. identify the safety rules of throwing of objects,e.g balls
Week: 4(Basic Science)
Topic: ENERGY I: Meaning and uses of energy.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson. pupils should be able to; i. explain the meaning of energy; ii. list things energy can be used for; iii. describe types of energy.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Movement Catching
Objectives: By the end of the lessson, pupils should be able to: i. Describe the monitor and mouse. ii. Outline the functions of monitor and mouse.
Week: 5(Basic Science)
Topic: Energy Il Sources of energy;
Objectives: By the end of the lessson, pupils should be able to: i.Explain energy, ii.List the source of energy; iii. explain the uses energy.
Week: 5-6(IT)
Topic: Parts of a computer -Monitor -Mouse
Objectives: By the end of the lessson, pupils should be able to: i. Describe the monitor and mouse. ii. Outline the functions of monitor and mouse.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Safety
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson pupils shouldbe able to; i. explain safety rules in movement ii. describe basic rules in manipulative movement eg. catching, throwing and striking. iii. identify the rules on playground.
Week: 6(Basic Science)
Topic: Energy III Energy Transformation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson„ pupils should be able to: I. explain energy transformation; ii. analyse examples of energy transformation; iii. demonstrate how to transfer energy: iv. appraise enery transformations in their daily acüvities.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Sport and Game Athletics
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i. explain the meaning of athletics; ii. describe short distance races athletics; iii. demonstrate concept of short distance races in athletics 50m dash; iv. state the health benefits of short distance races (running).
Week: 7
Topic: CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENT MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: CONTINUOUS ASSESSMENT MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8(Basic Science)
Topic: Energy IV -Light energy sources; -Natural sources of light; -Artificial sources of light.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i. explain the meaning of light; ii. discuss the natural sources of light; iii. analyse artificial sources of light iv. assess the importance of artificial and natural light in their environment.
Week: (IT)
Topic: KEYBOARD
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i.Outline the basic functions of the keyboard. ii.Recognize the major keys on the keyboard.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Sports and Games Athletics
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i. state the type of long distance race; ii. demonstrate long distance race; iii. describe the basic activity in long distance race; iv. identify the safety rule in a long distance race.
Week: 9(Basic Science)
Topic: Water -Meaning -Sources
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i. define the word water; ii. describe water; iii. distinguish between water and other liquids.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Athletics Jump
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i. Difine simple jumps ii. perform simple athletic activities iii. state the safety rules in jumping.
Week: 10(Basic Science)
Topic: Water -Uses of Water
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i. identify the composition of water; ii. describe the properties of water; iii. mention the uses of water to living things; plants, animals etc.
Week: (IT)
Topic: CPU
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to; i. describe the functions of CPU.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
