###Basic Science and Technology | Primary/Basic 5 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: REDINESS TEST/REVISION
Objectives: 
Week: 2(Basic Science)
Topic: ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY -Meaning of environmental quality -Advantages of a healthy environment. . -Healthy vs degraded environment -Disadvantages of degraded environment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. tell what environmental quality is; ii. appraise healthy environment; iii. differentiate between a healthy and a degraded environment; iv. state the disadvantages of degraded environment v. Describe the factors which degrade the environment
Week: PHE
Topic: Creativity Rhythemic
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain rythemic activities ii. mention types of rhyrhemic activity (marching, galloping,hopping, singing, dancing)etc iii. demonstrate rhythemic activities (marching, galloping,hopping, singing, dancing)etc
Week: IT
Topic: Exploration of files from the system -Identify files to be copied – Copying files from one directory to another
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify the different form of files and where they are saved ii. experiment the process of copying files from one directory to another
Week: 3(Basic Science)
Topic: Changes around us (Erosion) -Meaning of erosion -Causes of erosion
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. state the meaning of erosion ii. list and explain the types of erosion iii. discuss the causes of erosion iv explain the effect of erosion in the environment.
Week: PHE
Topic: Creativity Rhythemic
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. discuss meaning of rhythemic activities ii. list type of rhythemic activities (marching, galloping,hopping, singing, dancing)etc iii. demonstrate rhythemic activies (marching, galloping,hopping, singing, dancing) etc
Week: IT
Topic: Keyboard short cuts
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Outline the different types of keyboard short cuts
Week: 4(Basic Science)
Topic: Control of erosion
Objectives: Bythe end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: -discuss the effect of erosion on the environment -describe how to prevent and control erosion
Week: PHE
Topic: Athletics- Field events (Long jump)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. demonstrate jumping activities, e.g. jump and reach, jump and touch, jumping on the spot ii. discuss the concept of long jump. iii. list basic phases in long jump events (approach run, take-off, flight, landing, recovery) iv. demonstrate long jump phases on the field
Week: IT
Topic: Introduction to intemet -Meaning -History -Terminologies
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain the term internet ii. Discuss the history of intemet iii. Articulate the various internet terminologies
Week: 5(Basic Science)
Topic: Land and Noise pollution: -Land and noise Pollutants (paper, stagnant water etc.) -Sources of Land and noise pollution -Effects of Land and noise pollution -Control of Land and noise pollution.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of land and noise pollution; ii. examine the types and effect of land pollution; iii. examine the effect of noise and land pollution; iv. determine ways of preventing and controlling land and noise pollution.
Week: PHE
Topic: Athletics- Field events (High jump)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. demonstrate jumping activities e.g. jump and reach, jump and touch, jumping on the spot ii. discuss the concept of high jump. iii. list basic phases in long jump events (approach run, take-off, flight, landing, recovery) iv. demonstrate high jump phases on the field
Week: IT
Topic: Networking -Definition -Types, importance and use
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain networking ii. outline the importance of networking, the types and its uses
Week: 6(Basic Science)
Topic: Waste and waste disposal -Meaning of waste -Waste constitute -Types of waste(bottle, paper, wood, liters, sticks) -Effect of waste in the environment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of waste ii. list the types of waste iii. analyze waste constitute
Week: PHE
Topic: Personnal Healthcare
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify materials needed for personnal health care ii. explain meaning of personnal healthcare iii. justify the importance of personnal health care iv. compare between clean teeth and dirty teeth v. investigate the causes and prevention of dental problem
Week: IT
Topic: Internet Browser -Definition -List of browser and its uses –
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of internet broser ii. outline different types of internet browser and their uses
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8(Basic Science)
Topic: Waste and waste disposal – Method of waste disposal -Suggest different ways of recycling waste and the advantage of recycling waste
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. state the different means of dispossing waste ii. develop a definition of recycling iii. mention the advantages of recycling iv. document their own ideas of recycling
Week: PHE
Topic: Volleyball Game
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. mention different ball games ii. differentiate between activities and equipments in volleyball games iii. demonstate basic skills in volleyball games iv. investigate the advantages of playing volleyball games v. recommend the safety measures in playing volleyball games vi. discuss brief history of volleyball
Week: IT
Topic: Types of Visual Based Programming Language
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify various types of visual based programming Languages(Block Code) such as Scratch, Mine, craft, Alice, MIT app Inventor etc
Week: 9(Basic Science)
Topic: ENVIRONMENTAL CHANGES (WATER AND AIR) -Meaning of pollution -Water and air pollution -Effect of water and air pollution -Control of water and air pollution.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. formulate a definition of pollution ii. explain how water and air can be polluted and its effect on people and the environment iii. enumerate sources of water and air pollution iv. outline ways of preventing and controlling water and air pollution
Week: PHE
Topic: Basketball game
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. Discuss the history of basketball ii. differentiate between facilities and equipment in basketball games iii. demonstrates basic skills in basketball games
Week: IT
Topic: Types of Text Based Programming Languages and their uses.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i.identify various types of Text Based Programming Languages such as HTML. CSS. C++. Python. Java, PHP etc
Week: 10(Basic Science)
Topic: ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY -Ways of maintaining healthy environment -materials for maintaining healthy environment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. describe ways of maintaining a healthy environment. ii. identify ways of maintaining healthy and beautiful school environment iii. write materials for maintaining healthy environment.
Week: PHE
Topic: Football game
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. compare between facilities and equipment in football and other ball games ii. demonstrates basic skills in football game iii. investigate the advantages playing football game iv. recommend the safety measure in playing football game iv. discuss brief history of football
Week: IT
Topic: Introduction to Web and App Development
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. understand and explain the difference between web and app development
Week: 11(Basic Science)
Topic: REPRODUCTION IN PLANTS: -Parts of a flower, -Pollination; Meaning Types Process Agents
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. identify parts of a flower ii. explain the meaning of pollination iii. identify agents and types of pollination iv. draw and label a flower v. illustrate the process of pollination
Week: PHE
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
