###Basic Science and Technology | Primary/Basic 3 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of Basic 2 work
Objectives: 
Week: 2(Basic Science)
Topic: Measurement of Length -Meaning of length – instruments of measuring length -Standard metric units of length -Practical demonstrations of measuring length
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention the methods of obtaining length from their past experiences; ii.explain the meaning of length; iii. describe various instument for measuring length; iv.identify the metric units of measuring length (mm, cm); v. measure and record the length, breadth and height of objects around them; vi. analyse reason for differences in length
Week: (IT)
Topic: Generational development of computers. -From Abacus to smart phone
Objectives: i. Outline the various stages in computer development ii. Match the year and the advancement of computer development
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Moving our body parts
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to; i. demonstrate the imitate movements and sound made by people, animals and machine ii. describe movements made in animals, people iii. demonstrate the fundamental movement patterns e.g bending, crawling, galloping, climbing etc
Week: 3(Basic Science)
Topic: Measurement of Mass -Meaning of mass instruments of measuring mass Standard
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention the methods of obtaining mass from their past experiences ii. explain the meaning of mass; iii. mention various instruments for measuring mass or objects; iv. identify the metric units of measuring mass (g kg); v. measure and record the weight of objects in the classroom; vi. compare masses of objects; vii. analyse reasons for differences in mass
Week: (IT)
Topic: Generational deeloprnent computers -From Abacus to smart phone
Objectives: i. Outline the various stages in computer develcpment ii. Match the year and the of computer development
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Movement
Objectives: By the end of the leson pupils should be able to; i. what is movement ii. State types of movement patterns iii. Demonstrate different movement pattern eg bending crawling galloping etc iv. explain the safety rule of movement pattern eg crawling, galloping bending dimbmg etc
Week: 4(Basic Science)
Topic: Measurement of Time -Meaning and instruments of specified time -Standard metric unit of time -Sprcified activities within specified time frame.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention the meth0ds of obtaining time from past experience; ii. explain the meaning of time iii. mention instrument for masuring time; iv. identify the units of measuring time (seconds, minutes, hours, weeks months and years); v: discuss how specified time task are performed within specified time frame.
Week: (IT)
Topic: System Unit -Internal features of CPU -Motherboard -Processor -Bios battery – fan -RAM slot etc
Objectives: Identify the various internal features of CPU and state their uses.
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Physical fitness
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain what is physical fitness ii. Mention components of physical fitness iii. Demonstrate components of physical fitness e.g endurance, strength, agility, flexibility.
Week: 5(Basic Science)
Topic: Forms of Energy -Light Energy -Meaning of light energy -Sources of light energy – Uses of light energy
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils shouldbe able to: i. explain the meaning of light energy, ii. identify different sources of light energy, iii. describe uses of light energy to man; iv. analyse the importance of light in their envimnment
Week: (IT)
Topic: System unit -Intemal features of CPU -Motherboard -Processor -Bios batery -Fan -RAM slot etc.
Objectives: -Identify the various intemal features of the CPU and state their uses.
Week: 5-6(PHE)
Topic: Physical fitness
Objectives: By end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to i.list and explain fimess e.g endurance, strength, flexibility etc ii. Demonstrate the basic components of physical fitness iii. Describe the physical fitness activities to achieve e.g a. endurance b. strength c. flexibility
Week: 6(Basic Science)
Topic: Mirror- Image Formation -Properties of light -Plane mirrors -Reflection of light
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify characteristics of light; ii. describe types of mirrors; iii. demonstrate reflection of light using shiny surfaces; iv. explain the applications of reflection of light.
Week: (IT)
Topic: Hardware devices of a computer -Input & output devices
Objectives: i. Define hardware devices ii. Outline and identify the various hardware devices
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM ASSESSMENT
Objectives: MID-TERM ASSESSMENT
Week: 8(Basic Science)
Topic: Forms of Technology I- Underdeveloped Technology -Forms of technology -Examples of underdeveloped technology -Characteristics of underdeveloped technology
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify forms of technology; ii. examine examples of technology: a.. farming with hoes and cutlasses; b. using of town crier, c. use of stones to make fire; d. use of animals like donkeys, camel etc for transportation iii. discuss the characteristics of underdeveloped technology
Week: (IT)
Topic: Software application -Operating system -System applications
Objectives: -Explain software application, operating system and system application.
Week: 8-9(PHE)
Topic: Athletes -Track event
Objectives: By the end of the lesson; pupils should be able to i. Explain sprints race e.g 100m, 200m, 400m ii. Mention the different types sprints races, 100m, 200m, 400m, etc iii. Mention the skill and techniques involved in the sprints race e.g take off, acceleration iv Describe the safe rules in sprint race
Week: 9(Basic Science)
Topic: Forms of Technology -Developed Technology -Examples of developcd technology -Characteristics or developed technology
Objectives: By the end of the lesson; pupils should be able to: i. identify forms of developed technology; ii. examine xamples of devclopcd technology a. farrning with harvesters and tractors; b. using of public address systems; c. use of lighters: d. use of ships, airplanes, jets etc for transportaion. iii. discuss the characteristics of developed technology iv. compare underdeveloped technology with developed technology.
Week: (IT)
Topic: Operating system -Windows -Linux -Ubuntu
Objectives: i. Compare and contrast between the various types of operating system ii. State the functions of the different operating system iii. Outline the uses of the different operating system
Week: 10(Basic Science)
Topic: Forms of Technolog Ill: -General uses of Technology
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. identify forms of technology: ii. examine examples of modern day technology; iii. discuss uses of modern day technology; iv. analyse the importance of modern day technology; v. discuss the importance of modern technology in everyday activities.
Week: (IT)
Topic: Operating system -Windows -Linux -Ubuntu
Objectives: i. Compare and contrast between the various types of operating system ii. State the functions of the different operating system iii. Outline the uses of the different operating system
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Athletes -Field event -high hump
Objectives: By the end of the lesson. pupils should be able to i. Mention the phases humps approaching, take off flight, landing ii. Demonstrate the jumping activities e.g jump and reach, jump and touch, jump on the spot iii. Discuss the concept of long jump iv. Demonstrate phases of long jump on the field
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
