###Basic Science and Technology | Primary/Basic 3 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Readines test/ Revision of 2nd term work
Objectives: Readines test/ Revision of 2nd term work
Week: 2(Basic Science)
Topic: Meaning and Charactetistics of plants -Clases Of plants -Characteristics of plants
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should able to: i. say the meaning of plant ii. identify and classify plants, iii. describe the characteristics of plants (presence of chrolphyll, defect to rays of light, have celulose. etc.)
Week: (IT)
Topic: Microsoft Word -Toolbar
Objectives: -Identfy various tools on the tool bar and state functions
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Swimming
Objectives: Bybe end of leson; pupils should be able to i. meaning of swimming (Aquatic) ii. Mention the basic style/stroke in swimming e.g freestyle, backstroke, butterfly, breast stroke etc. iii. list the basic styles in swimming
Week: 3(Basic Science)
Topic: Uses of plants -Classes of plants based on life span -Uses of plant
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention examples of classes of plants; ii. examine plants based on their life span (annual, biennial, perennial etc.); iii. describe the uses of plants (food, medicine, hcrbs, furniture, wood as fuel, fruits etc. iv. analyze the importance of plants in thc environment
Week: (IT)
Topic: Microsoft Word -Tool bar
Objectives: Identify various tools on the Tool bar and state their functions
Week: 3-4(PHE)
Topic: Swimming
Objectives: By the end ofthe less on; pupils should be able to i. Demonstrate the basic skill in swimming ii. Perform the basic style/stroke in swimming free style, crawl, brust stroke, back stoke buterfly etc iii. Explain the safety rules in swimming iv. State the health benefit of swimming
Week: 4(Basic Science)
Topic: Plants – As living things -Features of plants
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i.identify the features of plants in the locality; ii. explains these observed features of animals
Week: (IT)
Topic: Menu Bar
Objectives: Identify various items on the Menu bar and state their functions
Week: 5(Basic Science)
Topic: Plants -As living things -Plane exhibiting characteristic of living things
Objectives: By the end of the leson. pupils should be able to: i.Differentiate between plants and non-living things ii. Discuss plant exhibiting the cahracteristics of living things (growth. reproduction; feeding movement iritability etc iii. Compare plants and animals as living
Week: (IT)
Topic: Menu Bar
Objectives: Identify various items on the Menu bar and state their functions
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Health and hygiene pollution -Types of pollution
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. State meaning of pollution ii. Mention types of pollution, air pollution, noise pollution, land pollution. water pollution iii. Explain the kinds of pollution (Noise pollution in chemical pollution, air pollution etc)
Week: 6(Basic Science)
Topic: Meaning and characterisucs of animals -Animals in their habitats -Classes of animals -Characteristics of animals
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify animals and their habitat; ii. describe the classes of animals (lower and higher animals); iii. describe the characteristics of animals iv. Compare lower animal with higher animals
Week: (IT)
Topic: Typing and saving on Microsoft word
Objectives: i. Type and save a short composition about themselves
Week: (PHE)
Topic: Pollution -Types of pollution -And Prevention
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. Discribe the kind of pollution, air pollution, noise pollution, chemical pollution ii. State the meaning of noise pollution. air pollution and chemical pollution iii. Describe ways of preventing pollution e.g air pollution, noise polution and chemical polluüon iv. Mention the effects of air pollution. noise pollution and chemical pollution
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM ASSESSMENT
Objectives: MID-TERM ASSESSMENT
Week: 8(Basic Science)
Topic: Uses of animals -uses of animals -Useful products from animals
Objectives: Byffe end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. describe common uses of animals; ii. identify useful products from animals; iii. examine other uses of animals (sport, games, security, transpon etc.) iv. analyse the importance of animals their environment
Week: (IT)
Topic: Typing and saving on Microsoft word
Objectives: Type and save a short composition about themselves
Week: 8-9(PHE)
Topic: First Aid
Objectives: By the end of the class pupils should be able to i. Discribe the meaning of first aid ii. Describe the duties of a first aider iii. Explain the qualities of a first aidcr
Week: 9(Basic Science)
Topic: Animals – As living things -Features
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils be able to: i. identify the features of animals in the locality ii. explain the observed features ofanimals
Week: (IT)
Topic: Formating
Objectives: –Load and save composition and format it
Week: 10(Basic Science)
Topic: Animals – As living things (Characteristic)
Objectives: by the end of the class pupils should be able to: i. Discuss animals exhibiting the characeristics of living things. feeding, movement, irritability etc ii. Differentiate between animals and other living things iii. Compare plants and animals as living things
Week: (IT)
Topic: formatting
Objectives: load the saved composition and format it
Week: 10(PHE)
Topic: REVISON
Objectives: REVISON
Week: 11
Topic: REVISON
Objectives: REVISON
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
