###Basic Science and Technology | Primary/Basic 5 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: REVISION AND READINESS TEST
Objectives: 
Week: 2(Basic Science)
Topic: ACID AND BASES: -Meaning of acid and -Examples of acids and -Types of acid and bases. -Differences beåyeen acid
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. develop a meaning for acids and bases; ii. state some examples of acids and bases; iii. Identify types of acids and bases; iv. distinguish between acid and bases.
Week: PHE
Topic: Nutrition
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. discuss concept of food and nutrition. ii. mention sources of food nutrient iii. highlight the nfritional deficiency diseases iv. investigate the characteristics of these deficiency disease
Week: IT
Topic: Digital literacy -Definition -Components -Importance -Copyrüht and plagiarism
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define digital literacy ii. Explain copyright and plagiarism iii. Outline the components and iv. Importance of digital literacy
Week: 3(Basic Science)
Topic: ACID AND BASES: -Materials used in making soap. -active ingredients in the local materials used in making soap. -Make soap from local materials -Uses of soap.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of Soap and detergents; ii. Mention Local materials used for making soap; iii. Identify the active ingredient in the local materials used in making soap; iv. enumerate the uses of soap.
Week: PHE
Topic: Food and Nutrition
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. mention the food nutrient ii. explain the effects of family size on nutrition iii. investigate the characteristics of nutritional deficient person
Week: IT
Topic: Digital literacy -Definition -Components -Importance -Copyright and plagiarism
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define digital literacy ii. Explain copyright and plagiarism iii. Outline the components and iv. Importance of digital literacy
Week: 4(Basic Science)
Topic: Basic Electricity: -Types of electricity (static and current). -Methods of generating electricity.
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: i. define electricity ii. identify and explain types of electricity. iii. discuss how electricity is generated. iv.discuss the importance of electricity in everyday life
Week: PHE
Topic: Martial Art History of Judo
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. discuss brief history of judo ii. itemize equipment of Judo iii. analyze the importance of judo iv. demonstrate judo skill
Week: IT
Topic: Cyberbullying -Definition -Forms of cyberbullying -Ways of dealing with Cyerbullying
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define cyberbullying ii. Outline the forms and ways of cyberbullying
Week: 5(Basic Science)
Topic: Basic Electricity: -Conductors and nonconductors. -Electric hit. -Uses of electricity
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: i. disus the meaning of conductors and non-conductors ii. explain how electricity travels from one point to the other (conductors); iii. group materials into conductors (metals) and non-conductors (woods, glass, *sic); iv. make a simple electric circuit connection.
Week: PHE
Topic: Martial Arts -Rules of judo and Skills
Objectives: By the end oftE lesson, pupils should be able to: i. state rules of judo ii. list teminologies in judo game iii. demonstrates tie judo basic skills
Week: IT
Topic: Digital skills -Definition -Components of digital skills -Importance of digital skills
Objectives: By tie end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define digital skills ii. Outline the components of digital skills iii. State the importance of digitat skills
Week: 6(Basic Science)
Topic: Magnetism: -Properties of magnets -Uses of magnets -Making magnets
Objectives: By the end of ttE lesson, pupils should be able to: i. State the properties of magnets; ii. Group materials to magnetic and non magnetic iii. Write common applications of magnetism iv. Make and use magnets
Week: PHE
Topic: Swimming Strokes
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. discuss meaning swimming ii. demonstrate swimming strokes iii. explain most difficult easiest swimming stroke
Week: IT
Topic: Desktop publishing applications -Microsoft word -Microsoft excel -Microsoft PowerPoint
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Experiment on each of the given desktop publishing applications
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8(Basic Science)
Topic: BASIC MOTOR PARTS (INTERNAL): -Internal parts of motor vehide e.g air bags, seat belts, steeing, brakes, ditches, pedals, gears etc. -Functions of the intemal parts of the motor vehicle
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to i. Mention the internal parts of motor vehide; ii. Identify the intemal parts of a motor vehicle; iii. discuss the basic functions of the internal art of a motor vehicle.
Week: PHE
Topic: Pathogens, diseases and prevention:
Objectives: By he end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. discus concept of disease and pathogen ii. mention types of pathogen e.g. bacterial, virus. iii. distinguish between disease and pathogen iv. Investigate ways of preventing diseases
Week: IT
Topic: Setting up the HTML Document Identify html tags Dccument Structure HTML syntax
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Experiment on each of the given desktop how HTML works
Week: 9(Basic Science)
Topic: Body Image and self esteem -Concept of body image -Features of bod image -Factors affecting body image.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the concept of body image; ii. appreciate individual features and uniqueness; iii. enumerate the factors affecting body image.
Week: PHE
Topic: Diseases; Meaning. Signs and Synptoms
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to, i. discuss concept of disease ii. identify between signs and symptoms of diseases iii. compare between sickness and illness
Week: IT
Topic: Introduction to Python -Use of python -Simple syntax command
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be ablo to: i. Describe the meaning of python ii. Put python and syntax to use.
Week: 10(Basic Science)
Topic: System. -Meaning of excretory system. -Organs involves in excretory system: kidneys, skin, liver, large intestine etc.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. describe the excretory system; ii. state tho organs involves in excretory system and their functions
Week: PHE
Topic: Meaning of communicable and non-communicable diseases
Objectives: By end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. define communicable and non-communicable diseases ii. . list kinds of communicable diseases iii. give concepts of non. communicable diseases iv. identify types of non-communicäble diseases
Week: IT
Topic: Introduction to Scratch
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to
Week: 11(Basic Science)
Topic: Meaning of rocks. -Classification of rocks according to colour, hardness, texture, etc. -List some important uses construction, beautification etc. Name some major landmark rocks in Nigeria
Objectives: By the end of lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the rneaning of rock; ii. Identify rocks and dassify rocks; iii. enumerate the uses of rocks qnenüon some landmark rocks in Nigeia. iv. Classify landmark rocks in Nigeria.
Week: PHE
Topic: Issues and Challenges in PHE
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, Pupils should be able to: i. discus Issues and Challenges In sports ii. mention different types of issues and challenges drugs iii. list different types of drugs iv. highlight the uses of drug v. investigate the effects of drinking and smoking vi. summarize the effects of drugs on athlete
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
