###Basic Science and Technology | Primary/Basic 4 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of Basic 3 work
Objectives: 
Week: 2(Basic Science)
Topic: Changes in nature(l) -Meaning of change -Examples of change -Classification of Change. -Difference between Temporary and permanent change
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils i. explain the concept a change’; ii. observe and describe some examples of changes around them. iii. consider the effects of changes around them give examples of temporary and permanent change; iv. differentiate betneen temporary and permanent change
Week: PHE
Topic: MOVING OUR BODY PARTS: -Walkin -Running -Sliding -Skipping -Hopping -Jumping
Objectives: By the end d the lesson, pupils should be able to. i. List the basic locomotor movements. ii. explain howto perform each of the locomotor movements, iii. demonstrate movement patterns.
Week: IT
Topic: Storage devices -Flash drive -Hard drive -CD
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain storage devices ii. Outline the various storage devices
Week: 3(Basic Science)
Topic: CHANGES IN PLANTS AND ANIMALS (l) -Changes in plants. -Conditions for changes in plants.
Objectives: By the end of the lessom pupils should be able to: i. observe and describe changes in plants in their environment; ii. explain the reasons for the changes in plants; iii. itemize the conditions for changes to occur in plants. iv. explain how changes in plants affect the pupil’s life
Week: PHE
Topic: MOVING OUR BODY PARTS (Il) 1.Non-locomotor movement: -Stretching -Bending -Twisting -Swinging -pulling
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. List any five non- locomotor movements, ii. State how to perform locomotor activities. iii. perform non- locomotor movement
Week: IT
Topic: OUTPUT DEVICE -Monitor -Printer
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. define output device ii. outline the function of the various types of output device
Week: 4(Basic Science)
Topic: CHANGES IN PLANT AND ANIMALS (II) -Changes in animals -Animals and their young ones -Reason for changes in animal
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. observe and desribe the changes in animal ii. identify the highlight of different animlas and their young ones iii. compare young ones to adult animals iv. give reason for the difference in young and adult animals
Week: PHE
Topic: ATHLETICS: Track event relay race: 4 x100m (i) baton exchange-, non-visual exchange -Types of baton exchange – Non-visual exchange – Exchange zone/box
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. exchange baton with teammates correctly ii. exchange baton without looking back iii. handle baton without it falling
Week: IT
Topic: LAUNCHING OF MICROSOFT -Powerpoint
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. launching of microsoft powerpoint
Week: 5(Basic Science)
Topic: CHANGES IN PLANTS AND ANIMALS (Ill) -Life cycle of insects
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i.identify some insects; ii. describe the life cycle of an insect; iii. draw and label the life cycle of some common insects. iv. compare the various stages of an insect life cycle
Week: PHE
Topic: ATHLETICS: Track event (sprints race): (i)Starting (ii)Take-off (iii)Running (iv)Arm action (v)Finishing -Meaning of sprint race -Type pf sprint races -Stages of sprint
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. list example of sprint race ii. Demonstrate a race iii. Demonstrate the “running techniques” a. -check out, body leaned forward. b. The arm action- swinging the hand to propel the body forward c. Finishing: “chesting out to” breast tape d. Explain the meaning of Sprint race
Week: IT
Topic: Microsoft Power Point Tool bar
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Identify various tools on the Tool bar and state their functions
Week: 6(Basic Science)
Topic: OUR WEATHER (l) -Meaning of Weather -Factors affecting weather
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. state the meaning of weather; ii. analyze the factors affecting the weather; iii. relate weather conditions to changes in factors affecting the weather. sun, cloud, wind, temperature, etc.
Week: PHE
Topic: Track Event Sprints races: 100m, 200m, 400m. (i) Meaning of spnng race (it) Types of Sprint races
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. List examples of sprints race ii. Demonstrate 100m races iii. Talk briefly on 200m and 400m race.
Week: IT
Topic: Microsoft Power Point -Tool bar
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Identify various tools on the Tool bar and state their functions
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8(Basic Science)
Topic: OUR WEATHER (II) -Weather instruments. -Weather symbols. -Weather records -making a weather instruction
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify and wite simple weather symbols: ii. use vwather symbols to keep records of weather changes; iii. relate weather symbols to changes in their environment iv. improvise simple weather instruments.
Week: PHE
Topic: GAMES AND SPORT -Football -Skills in footbal driblling shooting ball control goal keeping
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. list the football skills ii. perform the skills in football iii. demonstrate the position of the players in the field iv. control the ball during play v. demonstate goal keeping skills
Week: IT
Topic: MENU BAR
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. Identify various items on the menu bar and state their functions
Week: 9(Basic Science)
Topic: OUR WEATHER (II) -Weather instruments. -Weather symbols. -Weather records -making a weather instruction
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. name the standard measuring instrument and what they are used to measure ii. identify and write simple weather symbols iii. use weather symbol to keep record of weather changes iv. relate weather symbols to changes in their environment v. improvise simple weather instrument
Week: PHE
Topic: TABLE TENNIS Skills in table tennis e.g -the grip -service -scoring -forhand and backhand etc
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. mention the skills in table tennis, the grip, services etc ii. demonstate the services iii. have a firm hold of the bat(racket)
Week: IT
Topic: LAUNCHING POWERPOINT
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. locate and launch microsoft powerpoint
Week: 10(Basic Science)
Topic: WATER -Differentiating water from other liquids -Evaporation -Condensation -Freezing
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. explain the concept condensalion” ii. explain the concept “freezing’ iii. differentiate between evaporation, condensation, and freezing
Week: PHE
Topic: FIRST AIDS AND ITS USES: -Contents of First Aid box: -Grouping the contents of a first aid box. – Component of a First Aid box Water Medication Food
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Group the contents of the First Aid box ii. State the uses of each of the contents in a First Aid box
Week: IT
Topic: Intodoction to Computer Coding/Programming: -program -programming -programmer
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain the concept of Prgram, ii. Programming and Prorammer
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
