###History | Primary/Basic 3 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: -General revision of primary three first term work and the examination
Week: 2-3
Topic: EARLY HEROES AND HEROINES -Who is a hero? -Who is a heroine? Characteristics of heroes -Early heroes and heroines in the community
Objectives: By the cnd of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Explain who a hero is; 2, Tell who is a heroine; 3. Describe the characteristics of heroes/heroincs; 4. Examine early heroes and heroines in the community.
Week: 4-5
Topic: EARLY HEROES IN LAGOS STATE -Notable early heroes in Lagos State i.e. Sir. Herbert Heelas Olayinka Macaulay, Sir Candido Da Rocha Oba Kosoko of Lagos, Dr. Sapara Williams, Sir. Mobolaji Bank Anthon , J.K Randle, Chief H. O. Davies, e.tc Achievements ofthe early heroes in lagos State. -The role of the early heroes in the attainment of Nigeria’s Independence
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Mention the names of notable early heroes in Lagos State; 2. Give brief account of their backgrounds; 3. Discuss their various achievements in Lagos State; 4. Relate their activities towards the attainment of Nigeria’s Independence
Week: 6
Topic: EARLY HEROINES IN LAGOS STATE -Notable early heroines in Lagos State i.e. Madam Efuronye Tinubu, Madam Abike Pelewura, Lady Olayinka Abayomi, Dr, Abimbola Awoliyi Dr. Simi Johnson. -Achievements of the notable early heroines in Lagos State. -Roles of notable early heroines to nationalism in Nigeria.
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Mention notable early heroines in Lagos State; 2.Explain the background of the notable early heroines in Lagos State. 3. Relate the various activities ofthe notable early heroines in Lagos State. 4. Examine their activities during the nationalist struggles in Nigeria.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8-9
Topic: EARLY HEROES IN NIGERIA Notable early heroes in Nigeria i. Jaja of Opobo, Oba Overamwen in Benin, Sultan Attahiru in Sokoto, Sarkin Muhammed Rumfa Kano, El-Kanemi in Kanem-Bornu Empire, EtsuTsoede in Nupe land, Bishop Ajayi Crowder, -The accomplishments of the early heroes in Nigeria. -The background and activities of the early heroes in Nigeria. -The form of heroism of the early heroes in Nigeria.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson,pupils should be able to: 1. Mention the names of notable early heroes in Nigeria; 2. Explain the accomplishments of the notable early heroes in Nigeria; 3. Examine the background and activities ofthe notable early heroes in Nigeria; 4. Ascertain / Establish the form of heroism of the early heroes in Nigeria.
Week: 10-11
Topic: EARLY HEROINES IN NIGERIA -Notable early heroines in Nigeria i.e. Mrs. Funmilayo Ransome Kuti, Mrs. Margret Ekpo, Queen Amina in Zaria Queen Idia in Benin. -Forms of heroism by notable early heroines in Nigeria -Background and activities of notable early heroines in Nigeria.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Mention notable early heroines in Nigeria; 2. Discuss the achievements of the notable earlyheroines in Nigeria; 3. Explain the forms of heroism by notable early heroines in Nigeria 4. Relate the background and activities of notable early heroines in Nigeria.
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: General revision of the term’s
