###History | Primary/Basic 1 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: General revision of the second term work
Week: 2-3
Topic: TRADITIONAL RULERS IN LAGOS 1.Who is a traditional ruler? 2. Mention Paramount Traditional rulers in Lagos 3. ReIate How traditional rulers are chosen 4.Examine the historical significance of traditional ruler in Lagos
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1, explain the meaning of traditional ruler. 2. describe a paramount traditional ruler 3. outline why traditional rulers are important to the history of lagos
Week: 4
Topic: The name of traditional ruler in the community where school is located, of the traditional ruler title. The origin of the traditional ruler’s in the community
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1.Recall the name of treaditional ruler in the community where the school is located; 2. Mention the title of the traditional ruer in the community where the school is located 3.Examine the origin of the traditional ruler-ship in the community 4.Classify the traditional ruler in the community into the appropriate category of traditional in ruler in Lagos
Week: 5
Topic: THE PROCEDURES OF BECOMING A TRADITONAL RULER IN LAGOS -The various traditional rites involved before an individual becomes a traditional ruler in Lagos -Items involved in the instalation or coronation of a traditional ruler in Lagos i.e. Akoko leaves etc. -How a traditional ruler lagos is deposed/dethroned
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. explain the procedures of becoming a traditional ruler in lagos 2. mention the various traditional rite involve before an individual becomes a traditional ruler in Lagos. 3. discuss the item involve in the installation or coronation of a traditional ruler in Lagos. 4. relate how a traditional ruler in Lagos is dethroned.
Week: 6
Topic: SYMBOLS OF TRADITIONAL RULERS AUTHORITY. The uses ofthe symbols oftraditional ruler, authority the composition materials used in producing symbols of traditional rulers authority. The relevance of these Symbols of Traditional rulers authority to history
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Explain symbols of traditional Ruler authority 2. Discuss the uses of the symbol of authority of traditional ruler 3.Mention the material the symbol of authority are made of 4.Tell why these symbols of traditional rulers authority are relevant to History
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: THE ROLES OF TRADITIONAL RULERS -Political role, Religious Role and Judicial Roles etc -Limitation to the power ofthe traditional rulers
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should bc ablc to: 1. Discuss thc roles of traditional rulers 2. Discuss the political rolcs of traditional rulers; 3. Explain the rcligious and Judicial roles of traditional rulers 4.Relate the limitation to the power of the traditional ruler
Week: 9
Topic: TITLE HOLDERS -Who is a title Holder? -The various types of title holders in the community i.e. Balogun, Iplode, Apena Oluwo etc -Criteria for making a person a traditional title holder, -condition that can result in the removal of title holder
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: I.Explain who is a title holder 2. Mention the types of title holders in the community 3.Discuss the criteria for making a person a traditional title holder 4.TeIl why a tide holder may be removed from his/her position
Week: 10
Topic: DUTIES OF TRADITIONAL TITLE HOLDERS -Various duties of title holders – Importance of traditonal title holder
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1.Mention the duties carried out by title holders; 2.Research the importance of title holder in the community; 3Discuss the duties of å title holders the community; 4. examine the short comings of the title holders.
Week: 11
Topic: THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT CHAIRPERSON -What is a local government’ -The name of the local government area where the school is located -The name of the local government chairperson -Functions of the local Government Chairperson
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Define a local government and explain who a local govemment chairperson is 2.Give the name of the local government chairperson
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: General Revision of third term work
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
