###History | Primary/Basic 3 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: -General revision of all the work of primary three second term and exaniination
Week: 2-3
Topic: TOWNS AND SETTLEMENTS IN NIGERIA -Compound -Community -Village -City
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should bc able to: 1. Give the meaning of a compound; 2, Explain the meaning of a community; 3, Describe a village; 4, Explain what is a city; 5. Examine what is a city; 6. Relate the features of these concepts
Week: 4-5
Topic: SETTLEMENTS IN LAGOS (ANCIENT) -Ancient settlements Features of ancient settlements -Origin of ancient settlements in lagos State -Importance of these settlement. -Socialization of ancient settlement in Lagos State. -Types of settlements i.e. Villages, towns, e.t.c.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to 1, Define ancient settlements; 2. Outline the features of ancient settlements; 3. Mention ancient settlements in Lagos State, 4. Explain the origin of these ancient settlements; 5. Examine the importance of these ancient 6.Relate socialization of ancient setdements in Lagos State; 7. Classify the set-dements in Lagos State into types.
Week: 6
Topic: SETTLEMENTS IN LAGOS STATE (MODERN) -Towns, cities, e.tc. -Modern settlements -Features of modern settlements -Modern settlements in -Lagos State. i.e. Festac Town, Apapa, Ikoyi,Ghagada, Lckki, Satelite Town, e.t.c -Importance of these modern settlements. -Origin of these modern settlements -Socialization in modern settlements in Lagos State. -Types of modem settlements – towns, cities, Urban, sub urban, Gheto, e.tc.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Explain the meaning of modern settlements; 2. Describe the features of modern settlements 3. Mention modern settlements in Lagos State; 4. Explain the importance of these modern settlements; 5. Discuss the origin of thcsc m0dern settlements in Lagos State; 6. Examine the socialization in modem settlements in Lagos State; 7. Categoise modern settlements in Lagos State.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8-9
Topic: SETTLEMENTS IN NIGERIA (ANCIENT) Ancient towns in Nigeria i.e. Daura, Ile-ife, Gboko, Aba, Idah, Okene, Lokoja, Oturkpo, Benin, Oyo, Badagry, Kukawa, Calabar, Nsukle, e.tc -Features of ancient towns in Nigeria -Origins of ancient towns in Nigeria -Socialization in ancient towns in Nigeria. -Importance of ancient towns and settelments in Nigeria.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. List some ancient towns in Nigeria; 2. Write the features of ancient towns in Nigeria; 3. Relate the origins of the ancient towns and settlement in Nigeria; 4. Research on the importance of ancient towns in Nigeria
Week: 10
Topic: TOWNS SETTLEMENTS IN NIGERIA (MODERN) -Modern settlements -Some modern settlements in Nigeria. i.e. Abuja, Enugu, Port harcourt, Onne, Kaduna, Jos, Yola, Akure, etc. -Origins of these modern settlements and towns in Nigeria. -Reasons f0r their establishment -Socialization in the modern towns and settlements in Nigeria – Importance of modern towns and settlements in Nigeria,
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Explain the meaning of modern settlements; 2. List some modern settlements in Nigeria; 3. Examine the origins of these modern settlements and towns in Nigeria; 4. Explain why these modern settlements and towns in Nigeria were establisheu 5.Tell the socialization in the modern towns and settlelncnts in Nigeria 6, Relate the importance of modern towns and settlements in Nigeria,
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: General Revision of the work of the term
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
