###History | Primary/Basic 5 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision
Objectives: General revision of the work of Primary five second term and examination
Week: 2-3
Topic: NIGERIAN INDEPENDENCE -Meaning of Independence -Date and year of Nigeria independence -Country that gave Nigeria her independence -The key people that participated in Nigeria independence celebration i.e Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe, Alhaji Tafawa Balewa Pricess Alexandria of England etc -The venue of the Nigerian Independence celebration -The process of Nigerian independence on October 1st 1960 and the impact on Nigerians
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Explain independence; 2, Mention the country that gave Nigeria her independence 3. Give the date and year of Nigeria’s Independence; 4, Examine the key people that patticipated in Nigeria’s independence celebrations; 5. Write he venue of the Nigeria’s Independence Celebration; 6. Relate the process of Nigeria’s Independence on October 1st 1960 and he impacts on Nigeria.
Week: 4-5
Topic: NIGERIAN INDEPENDENCE REPUBLIC AND FEDERATION -Meaning of Rebublic -Meaning iof Federation -Structure of Nigerian Government at Independence -The parliamentary system of the first republic in Nigeria -When and how Nigeria became a Federal republic
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Give the meaning of a republic; 2. Explain the meaning of a federajon; 3. Describe the stmcture of Nigeria’s govemment at independence; 4. Examine the parliamentary system of Nigeria’s first republic; 5. Write when and how Nigeria became a Federal Republic
Week: 6
Topic: TRADITIONAL RELIGION IN NIGERIA -Meaning of religion -Meaning of Traditional religion -Types of traditional religion practiced in Lagos State i.e Ogun, Sango, Olokun, Zangbeto, Esu etc. -Inportance of traditional religions in Nigeria -The limitation of traditional religions in the society –
Objectives: fie end of fie lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Eyplain the meeting of religion; 2. Give the meaning of traditional religion; 3. Write the types of traditional religions practiced in Lagos State; 4. Eyamine fre importance of traditional religions in Nigeria; 5. Debates on the limitations of the traditional religions in the society.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: ISLAM IN NIGERIA -Meaning of Islam -The founder of Islam -The origin of Islam -The people that helped the spread of Islam in Nigeria -The five pillars of Islam -The dominant areas where Islam is practiced in Nigeria
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Explain the meaning of Islam; 2. Give the origin of Islam; 3. State the founder of Islam; 4. Examine the people that helped the spread of Islam in Nigeria; 5. Mention the five pillars of Islam; 6. Write the dominant areas where Islam is practiced in Nigeria.
Week: 9
Topic: CHRISTIANITY IN NIGERIA -Meaning of Christianity -The founder of the Christian Faith -Who are the Christians -The origin of Christianity in Nigeria -The Early Christian Missionaries and the roles they played in Nigeria. The problems Christian missionaries faced in Nigeria.
Objectives: By the end of the lessonj pupils should be able to: 1. Explain the meaning of Christianity; 2. Mention the founder of Chistianity; 3. Explain who the Christians are; 4. Examine the origin of Christianity in Nigeria; 5. Relate the early Christian missionaries and the roles they played in Nigeria; 6. Write the problems Christian missionaries faced in Nigeria.
Week: 10
Topic: TRADITIONAL OCCUPATIONS IN THE LOCALITY-LAGOS STATE -Meaning of occupation -Meaning of traditional occupations -Notable traditional occupations in Lagos State. -The impotance of traditional ocupations in Lagos State. -Various intergroup relations created by these occupations
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Explain the meaning of occupation; 2. Give the meaning of traditional occupation; 3. Mention notable traditional occupations in Lagos State, 4. Examine the importance of traditional occupation in Lagos state; 5. Relate the intergroup relations created by these occupations,
Week: 11
Topic: TRADITIONAL OCCUPATIONS OF NIGERIAN PEOPLE SOUTHERN NIGERIA -Nigerian people in Southem Nigeria -Various traditional occupations in Southern Nigeria, -The interconnectivity of occupations in Nigeria. -The importance of these occupations to growth and development,
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Mention the Nigerian peoples in Southern Nigeria; 2. name the various traditional occupations in Southem Nigeria; 3. Describe the various traditional occupations in Southem Nigeria and their benefits; 4. Examine the interconnectivity of occupations in Nigeria; 5. Relate the importance of these occupations to growth and development.
Week: 12
Topic: TRADITIONAL OCCUPATIONS OF NIGERIA PEOPLE NORTHERN NIGERIA -Location of Northern Nigeria -Nigerian people in Northern Nigeria -Various traditional occupations in Northern Nigeria i.e. Animal husbandry, cereal farming, leather works, etc -Benefits of various occupations Concepts of primary and secondary occupations i.e. Animal husbandry -primary occupation, Leathemork – secondary occupation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. tell where Northen Nigeria is located; 2. Name the Nigerian people in northem Nigeria; 3, Mention the various traditional occupations in Northern Nigeria; 4. Establish the connection beween the various occupations and their benefits; 5. Differentiate between the concepts of primary occupation and secondary occupation.
Week: 13
Topic: REVISION & EXAMINATION
Objectives: General revision of all the work of the term/session
