###History | Primary/Basic 1 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision
Objectives: General revision of the first term work and examination
Week: 2-3
Topic: HEROES IN THE COMMUNITY Who is a Hero? Notable heroes in the Community. The backgrounds and achievement of heroes ofhemes in the community
Objectives: By the end or the lesson Pupils should be able to: I.Explain who is a hero is; 2.Give examples of heroes in the community; 3.Relate the background and the achievements of the heroes in the community 4.Examine the importance of Heroes to the community
Week: 4-5
Topic: Heroines in the community who is a Heroine? Notable Heroines in the community The background and achievements of the heroine in the community.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: I.Define a heroine? 2.Mention examples of heroine 3. examine the background and achievements of the heroine 4. Relate the contributions of heroines to the development of the community
Week: 6
Topic: FESTIVALS IN LAGOS What is a festival? Notable festival in lagos i.e. Eyo, Kayo-layo, Egungun, Igunuke, Jigbo, Gelede etc Importance of festival in lagos.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. explain the meaning of festival 2. mention the types of festival in Lagos 3. relate the importance of the festivals in Lagos to history 4. differntiate among festivals in Lagos.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8-9
Topic: Traditional Musics in Lagos What is traditional music What type of traditional music are found in Lagos? were, wako. sakam. The first traditional music and musician in Lagos.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupil should be able to: 1. Explain the meaning of the Traditional Music found in Lagos 2. State the type of Traditional music in Lagos. 3. Mention the first Traditional music in Lagos 4. Distinguish among the traditional Music types in Lagos.
Week: 10-11
Topic: TRADITIONAL HAND CRAFT IN LAGOS Whatis traditional handcraft? Traditional handcrafts in lagos i.e. mat pottery, basket weaving , blacksmithing, wood caning etc Prominent individuals engaged in traditional handcraft in Lagos
Objectives: By the end ofthc lesson pupils should bc able to: I.Explain the meaning of traditional handcraft; 2.Mcntion the types of traditional handcrafts in Lagos 3.Examine promincnt individuals cngagcd in traditional handcrafts in Lagos, 4.Rclate importance of traditional handcrafts to the history Lagos.
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: General Revision of the second term’s work
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
