###Mathematics | Primary/Basic 4 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: REVISION OF Ist TERM’S WORK. Resumption test -Fractions -Proper fraction -Improper -Mixed fraction -Change of improper fraction to mixed fraction and vice -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils shoild be able to: i. identify some difficult topics from their 1st term’s work ii. demonstrate and explain the definition of fraction iii. identify types of fractions iv. differentiate between types of fractions v. represent fractions on a number line. vi. solve quantitative reasoning on fraction
Week: 2
Topic: Fractions Equivalent fractions Addition and subtraction of like and unlike fracåons. Reducing to lowest term Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. obtain equivalent fractions of a given fraction. ii. calculate addition and subtraction of like and unlike terms fractions. iii. apply fractions in sharing commodities in home, market, school etc iv. solve quantitative reasoning on equivalent fractions.
Week: 3
Topic: Decimal fractions -Addtion and subtraction of decimals. -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. identify decimal fractions up to tenths, hundredth and thousandth ii. change from fractions to decimals iii. calculate addition and subtraction of decimals iv. solve quantitative reasoning involving decimal problems
Week: 4
Topic: Multiplication of decimals -Division of decimals -Changing common fractions with 10, 100, and 1000, as denominator to decimal -Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to; i. calculate decimals by multiplying with 1 -digit number ii. calculate decimals by dividing with 1-dgit number iii. discover decimals by multiplyang with 10. 100 and 1,000 iv. divide decimals with 10, 100. 1000 v. use numbers greate than 10 to multiply and divide decimals.
Week: 5
Topic: Square -Square Root of whole numbers -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. calculate the square of numbers from 1-20 ii. identify the perfect squares in a set of numbers e.g. 1, 4, 9, 16 are the perfect squares. iii. find the square root of perfect squares up to 400 iv. solving word problems involving the calculation of square of numbers and square root of numbers. v. solve quantitative reasoning
Week: 6
Topic: ESTIMATION -Round up of numbers -Round up on addition and subtraction of numbers -Quantitaüve reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. identify actual numbers. solve round-up numbers. ii. calculate addition and subtraction of round-up of numbers. iii. interpret and solve real life problems on estimation. iv. solve quantitative reasoning.
Week: 7
Topic: Review of first half terms and periodic test
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: MONEY -Conversion of money -Addition and Subtraction -Profit and Loss -Word problems -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. convert naira to kobo and vice versa. ii. calculate the sum and difference of money. iii. differentiate between profit and loss. iv. solve real life problems on profit and loss. v. solve quantitative reasoning on money.
Week: 9
Topic: MONEY -Multiplication of money -Division of money -Word problem -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils shwld be able to. i. use number to multiply money ii. divide money by whole number iii. Solve real problems on multiplication and division of money (Online shopping to be Included) iv. solve quantitative reasoning problems.
Week: 10
Topic: OPEN SENTENCE -Addition and Subtraction -Multiplication -Division -Quantitaüve reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. illustrate and explain the tem open sentence. ii. predict the missing numbers in an open sentence. iii. tell stories on open sentence, write and solve the equations, iv. solve quantitative reasoning involving open sentence
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
