###Mathematics | Primary/Basic 4 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: REVISION /RESUMPTION TEST WHOLE NUMBERS -counting and reading numbers from 1000 up to 9,999 -the place value of numbers up to 9,999
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. count in hundreds and thousands. ii. generate numbers using abacus iii. apply counting of numbers in real life problems. iv. categorize the value of a digit in numbers up to 9,999 solve v. quantitative reasoning
Week: 2
Topic: WHOLE NUMBERS (Contd) -Counting from Thousand to One Million -MWriting numbers up to One Million -The place value of numbers up to One Million
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. count numbers in Thousands and Millions ii. write numbers in words up to one million iii. identify place value of numbers up to one million
Week: 3
Topic: WHOLE NUMBERS -SKIP COUNTING -Count in groups of 5’s -Count in groups of 7’s, 60’s -Count in groups of 100s and 1000s up to 10,000 -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. count objects in 5’s count in 7’s and relate it to real life situations ii. count in 60’s and relate it to real life situations iii. solve quantitative reasoning on whole numbers.
Week: 4
Topic: ORDER AND COMPARE WHOLE NUMBERS -Ordering of whole nurnbers with symbols up to 1,000.000. -Use of relation signs, less than (<), greater than(>), and equal to(=) – Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. arrange numbers with symbols from the largest to the smallest ii. express inequalities of 4 to 7 digit numbers using tho relation sign greater than less than and equal to e.g 2690<3678, 723456>43456, 256389= 256389. iii. rearrange numbers in qualnitative reasoning
Week: 5
Topic: ROMAN NUMERALS -Counting Roman numerals up to 1000 i.e i-M – Reading clock faces with Roman numerals -Re-write Arabic numbers in Roman numerals and vice versa
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. count and write Roman numerals up to 1000 i.e i-M ii. read and show clock faces with Roman numerals iii. write Arabic numbers in Roman numarals and vice versa iv. solve simple addition and subtraction in Roman numerals e.g LXV+XI= LXXVi, CCX-CiX= Xi
Week: 6
Topic: BASIC OPERATIONS -Addition of whole numbers -Subtraction of whole numbers -Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. add whole numbers in TH, H, T, U, with and without reminder ii. subtract whole numbers in TH, H, T, U, with and without reminder iii. solve real life problems involving addition and subtraction
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM TEST/ MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM TEST/ MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: MULTIPLICATION -Multiplication of whole numbers -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. revise basic multiplication facts ii. multiply whole number by 2-digit numbers not exceeding 50 using the grid method and vertical method iii. solve real life problem on multiplication iv. solve quantitative aptitude problem involving multiplication
Week: 9
Topic: DIVISION -Division of whole numbers -Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. divide 2- and 3. digit numbers by numbers up to 9 with or without remainder. ii. divide numbers with multiples of 10 up to 50 iii. solve sharing problems in real life situations. iv. solve quantitative aptitude involving division.
Week: 10
Topic: LOWEST COMMON MULTIPLE Lowest Common Multiples (L.C.M) of numbers -Quantitative reasoning.
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. write multiple of number up to 9 ii. find L.C.M using multiple method. iii. solve real life problems using L.C.M iv. solve quantitative aptitude involving L.C.M.
Week: 11
Topic: HIGHEST COMMON FACTOR -Highest Common Factors (H.C.F) of numbers. -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. write factors of numbers from 1 -99 ii. identify the common factors of 2 and 3 work out the common iii. solve quantitative aptitude related to H.C.F
