###Mathematics | Primary/Basic 4 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of second term’s work Resumption Test
Objectives: Revision of second term’s work Resumption Test
Week: 2
Topic: LENGTH -Estimating length -Comparing measurement Addition and subtraction of lenght -Quantitative Aptitude
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. estimate distance in kilometres and metres e.g estimate the width or height of a wall, a table, a floor, plane shapes, to the nearest metre or centimetre ii. compare measurements in metres and kilometres e.g Dayo trekked to the store which is a quarter of a kilometre from his house. If it takes him 15 minutes to get to the store, how many metres does he walk. N.B 1 kilometre=100 metres iii. calculate the addition and subtraction opf length in kilometre and metres iv. interprete and solve real life problems on lenghth v. solve quantitative reasoning on length
Week: 3
Topic: WEIGHT -Addition and Subtraction of weight -Multiplication of weight in kilograms by whole number -Division of weight in kilogram by whole numbers -Quantitative aptitude
Objectives: Pupils should be able to i. solve addition problems on weight of objects e.g 236g + 262= 598g ii. calculate the difference in weight of objects iii. solve problems on multiplication of weight in kg and grams by whole numbers iv. solve problems on division of weight in kg and grams by whole numbers v. solve real life problems on weight vi. solve quantitative reasoning on weight
Week: 4
Topic: SQUARE AND RECTANGLE -Perimeter of square perimeter of rectangle Area of square and rectangle -Quantitative aptitude
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. measure and compute the perimeter of a rectangle. ii. solve the area of a square and rectangle. iii. solve real life problems. iv. solve quantitative reasoning related to areas and perimeters of squares and rectangles
Week: 5
Topic: TIME -Calendar -Date -Quantitative aptitude
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. discuss the purpose of time. ii. identify the seconds, minutes and hour hands on a clock. iii. tell the time on the clock (digital and analogue). iv. read and interpret and calculate time on daily, weekly and monthly activities using a calendar and recite 60 seconds make 1 minute rhymes of a year calendar. v. use the notation “a.m. (ante meridian- before noon)” and “p.m. (post meridian- after noon)’ for time of the day conversion of hour to minutes, seconds and vice-versa vi. tell stories on time in connection to real life problems vii. solve exercises on quantitative aptitude.
Week: 6
Topic: CAPACITY Basic units of measurements Addition and Subtraction in litres. Quantitative aptitude
Objectives: Pupils should be able to; i. meaning of capacity. ii. study the usage of standard measurement of some liquid containers e.g. bottles of water and soft drink, gallon of petol, palm oil, groundnut oil etc., iii. convert liters to centiliters accurately e.g.1000cl= 1 liter iv. show the addition and subtraction in liters correctly. v. solve real life problems. vi. solve quantitative aptitude.
Week: 7
Topic: Review of first half terms and periodic test
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: CAPACITY -Multiplication in liters -Division in liters -Quantitative aptitude
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. calculate the multiplication in litres by whole numbers ii. solve in litres using division by whole numbers appreciate litres as the unit of capacity. iii. Solve real life problems on capacity. iv. use quantitative reasoning to solve problems in litres.
Week: 9
Topic: PLANE SHAPES -Symmetry on plane shapes -Horizontal and vertical lines -Cardinal points
Objectives: Pupils should be able to i. describe the symmetry of a shape. ii. identify the symmetrical line on plane shapes e.g square, rectangle, triangle etc. in regulation to reflection. iii. locate line(s) of symmetry of plane figures at school and homes iv. identify right angle, acute and obtuse angles in plane shapes.
Week: 10
Topic: THREE DIMENSIONAL SHAPES (3D) -Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of three dimensional shapes. ii. distinguish between 2 and 3 dimensional shapes. iii. list the properties of three dimensional shapes. iv. appreciate the presence and uses of 3 dimensional shapes at home. v. apply 30imentional shapes into real life situations, vi. solve quantitative reasoning
Week: 11
Topic: EVERYDAY STATISTICS -Pictogram -Bar Chart -Mode -Simple probability
Objectives: Pupil should be able to: i. group data or information using diagram, pictures, images and symbols. ii. draw a bar chart identify the mode from the graph. iii. relate the graph to real life situations. iv. tell stories on theoretical probability and solve the problems. v. solve quantitative reasoning.
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
