###Mathematics | Primary/Basic 5 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: WHOLE NUMBERS -Counting and writing of numbers in thousands and millions Usage of abacus and number charts to identify and read numbers -Place value of digits in whole numbers -Place value of digits in decimal numbers -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. count in thousands and millions ii. use abacus to form given numbers iii. categorize the value of a digit in a whole number from a given set off digits in decimal numbers or whole numbers iv. compare and order whole numbers to 100, 1000 v. round up nearest to the nearest 10. 000 vi. apply counting of large numbers in real life problems. vii. solve quantitative aptitude problems related to place value and whole numbers
Week: 2
Topic: ROMAN NUMERALS -Changing Arabic numerals into Roman numbers -Changing Roman numerals into Arabic numbers -Addition and subtraction involving roman numerals
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. convert Arabic numbers into Roman numbers ii. change roman numerals to Arabic numbers iii. add and subtract questions on roman numerals iv. solve quantitative aptitude problems on roman numerals
Week: 3
Topic: ADDITION AND SUBTRACTION OF NUMBERS -Addition of whole numbers in thousands and millions -Subtraction of whole numbers in thousands and millions -Real life problems on additon and subtraction an thousands and millions -Ouantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. add and subtract whole numbers involving three or more terms ii. tell addition story and subtraction story. iii. carry out correct addition and subtraction in everyday life activities correctly. iv. solve quantitative aptitude problems involving addition and subtraction of whole numbers and decimal numbers
Week: 4
Topic: MULTIPLICATION AND DIVISION OF WHOLE NUMBERS -Multiplication and division of three-digit numbers by three-digit numbers -Multiplication of numbers by zero and one -Real life problems on multiplication and division -Division of numbers by 10, 20…90, 100 200 and 1000, 2000… .. -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. multiply and divide numbers with three digits by three digits ii. solve real life problems on multiplication and division of whole numbers iii. multiply numbers by zero and one iv. divide numbers by 10 and multiples of 10 up to 90, 100, 200 and 1000 respectively v. solve quantitative aptitude problems on multiplication and division of whole numbers
Week: 5
Topic: PRIME NUMBERS -Identification of odd and even numbers -Identification of prime numbers less than 200 -Lowest Common Multiples -Highest Common Factor -Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. identify even and odd numbers in a given set of numbers ii. categorize prime numbers less than 200 from a given set of numbers iii. solve problems involving LCM and HCF iv. solve quantitative aptitude problems related to prime numbers and factors
Week: 6
Topic: FRACTIONS -Ordering of fractions -Changing fractions to decimals -Changing decimals to fractions -Changing fractions and decimals to percentage -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. arrange fractions in ascending or descending ii. order change fractions to decimals and vice versa iii. convert fractions and decimals to percentages iv. solve real life problems. v. solve quantitative aptitude problems related to decimals, fractions and percentages
Week: 7
Topic: Review of the first half term’s and periodic test
Objectives: Review of the first half term’s and periodic test
Week: 8
Topic: RATIOS -Relationship between ratio and fractions -Solving real life problems on ratio -Quanåtative aptitude
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of ratio ii. explain ratio in terms of fraction iii. solve real life problems on ratio iv. solve quantitative aptitude problem related to ratio
Week: 9
Topic: ADDITION AND SUBTRACTION OF FRACTIONS -Addtion of fractions and mixed numbers -Subtraäion of fractions and mixed numbers -Addition of decimal
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. add and subtract fractions with common denominators ii. add two proper fractions, improper fractions and mixed fractions iii. subtract two proper fractions, improper fractions and mixed fractions iv. apply addition and subtraction of proper and improper fractions into real fife problems v. use LCM method to add and subtract fractions vi. solve quantitative aptitude problems related to addition and subtraction of mixed numbers
Week: 10
Topic: DIVISION OF FRACTIONS -Division of decimals by whole numbers -Divison of fractions -Real life problems on division of decimals decimals and -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. divide fractions ii. solve real life problems on division of fractions iii. apply the rule of Shifting decimal points to the left to obtain result of division of numbers by 10, 100 and 1000. iv. divide given decimals by whole numbers tell a division story on fractions and interpret to solve real-life problems v. quantitaåve aptitude on division of decimals and fractions
Week: 11
Topic: SQUARES AND SQUARE ROOTS -Squares of numbers -Square roos Square of whole numbers up to 50 -Square roots of whole numbers up to 900 -Real life problems on squares and square root of numbers -Quantitative reasonng
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. find fre square of a given whole number more than 50 ii. find the square root of a perfect square of a whole number greater than 400 iii. perform basic operations on squares and square roots of numbers. iv. find the square root of perfect squares v. solve real life problems related to square and square roots vi. solve quantitative aptitude problems relating to squares and square roots of whole numbers
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
