###Mathematics | Primary/Basic 5 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: REVISION/ TEMPERATURE -Temperature of objects and towns in degrees celsius -Conversion of centigrade to Fahrenheit -Conversion of Fahrenheit to Centigrade -Real life problems on temperature -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: Discuss the meaning of temperature. i. compare the degree of hotness or coldness in degree Celsius ii. convert a given temperature in Centigrade to Fahrenheit iii. change a given temperature in Fahrenheit to Centigrade iv. appreciate the usefulness of temperature in our daily life v. solve quantitative aptitude problems related to temperature
Week: 2
Topic: LINES, ANGLES AND BEARINGS -Parallel and perpendicular lines -Complementary and supplementary angles -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. identify parallel and perpendicular lines in measuring and drawing angles, using the protractor ii. identify and calculate the complementary, opposite and supplementary angles by telling the directions accurately using angles in real life situations. iii. solve quantitative aptitude problems on parallel and perpendicular lines, complementary and supplementary lines
Week: 3
Topic: PLANE SHAPES (PROPERTIES) -Properties of a rhombus, square and rectangle -Quadrilaterals -Components of circle Real life problems. -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. identify types and state basic propedies of rhombus square rectangle in relation to real life situations. ii. recognize quadrilaterals and state basic properties of quadrilaterals iii. use real object to discuss the component parts of a circle and draw a circle with a specified radius. iv. solve quantitative reasoning problems on properties of square, rectangle, quadrilaterals, circle solve real life problems
Week: 4
Topic: ANGLES -Angles -Types of angles Transversal -Measurement of angles -Sum of angles on a straight line and shapes -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain angles as a space between two lines that meet ii. mention types of angles with examples in their immediate environment. iii. measure angles in degrees by using protractor use the parallel and transversal lines to determine: corresponding altemate and vertically opposite angles iv. solve real life problems on angles. v. solve quantitative aptitude problems on angles
Week: 5
Topic: THREE DIMENSIONAL SHAPES -Cube, cuboid and pyramid -Square base and triangular prism -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. make three dimensional shapes using their net develop interest in the constructing nets of cube, cuboids and pyramid ii. identify prism and pyramid iii. solve real life problems. iv. solve quantitative aptitude problems related to three dimensional shapes
Week: 6
Topic: MEASUREMENT -Measurement of height -Conversion of units in height and distances -Measurement of distances -Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. measure the height of some pupils, desk, flowering plants and short distances. ii. use tape to measure the dimensions of the classroom iii. compare heights of pupils in the classroom iv. convert units of measurement v. solve real life problems on measurement vi. solve quantitative aptitude vii. solve problems related to measurement of height and distances
Week: 7
Topic: Review of he first half term’s work and periodic test.
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. review the first half term’s work ii. participate in the periodic test.
Week: 8
Topic: BINARY NUMBER -Binary number systems -Identification of numbers in base 2 -Conversion from base two to base ten and vice versa -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain the concept of number systems ii. identify numbers written in base ten and two iii. convert from base two to base ten and vice versa iv. add and subtract numbers in base two v. solve quantitative aptitude vi. problems related with binary numbers
Week: 9
Topic: BINARY NUMBER -Addition of binary numbers -Subtraction of binary numbers -Quantitative remsoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. add numbers in base two ii. subtract numbers in base two iii. solve quantitative aptitude problems related with binary numbers
Week: 10
Topic: DATA PRESENTATION -Defination of statistic Tally, pictogram, bar graph and pie chart
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. explain statistics as the collection, classification, analysis, presentation and interpretaion of data ii. prepare a tally iii. represent data collected in pictogram, bar graph and pie chart iv. tell a statistic story, draw and interprete the information v. solve real life problem on statistic vi. solve given problem in quantitative aptitude on statistics
Week: 11
Topic: MEASURES OF CENTRAL TENDENCY -Median -Mean -Probability -Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. find the mode for a set of numbers ii. identify the median from a given set of numbers iii. calculate mean of a given set of numbers iv. solve problems on chances of events v. solve real life problems on measure of central tendencies and probability vi. solve quantitative aptitude problems relating to time’
Week: 12
Topic: Project/Practical work and Revision of first terms work
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: Realize the areas of weakness in the topics treated for the term.
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
