###Mathematics | Primary/Basic 6 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: WHOLE NUMBERS a. Reading and writing numbers in millions up to billions in words and figures b. Skip counting in thousands, millions and billions. c. Place value and value of whole numbers d. Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: read and write numbers up to one billion in words ii. read and write numbers up to one billion in figures iii. count in thousands, millions and billions iv. write the place value and values of numbers v. solve quantitative reasoning questions related to thousands, millions and billions,
Week: 2
Topic: Addition and Subtraction of numbers (a) Whole Numbers (b) Decimal Fraction (c) Real Problems on addition and subtraction of numbers. (d) Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: a, add any 4-10 digits numbers and write the answers in words e.g. b. subtract and 4-10 digits numbers and write the answers in words c. add any decimal fractions and write the answers in words d. subtract any decimal fractions and write the answers in words addition. subtraction and decimal fractions. f. solve quantitative reasoning related to addition and subtraction of numbers,
Week: 3
Topic: Multiplication of Numbers -Whole Numbers -Decimal Fractions -Real life Problems -Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to i. multiply 3 digits by 3 digits numbers and write the answers in words ii. multiply decimal fraction by decimal fraction of different iii. solve real life problems on multiplication related to daily
Week: 4
Topic: Division of Numbers -Whole Numbers -Decimal Numbers -Real life Problems -Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to a. divide whole numbers by 2 digits and 3 digits numbers without and with remainder b. interpret and solve daily life activities exercises on division c. solve quantitative reasoning related to division in real.
Week: 5
Topic: L.C.M and H.C.F -Lowest Common Multiples and Highest Common factors of not more than 3 digits -Real life Problems on LCM and HCF Quantitative Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. find the L.C.M of 2 or 3 digits using the multiple method ii. find the LiC.M of 2 or 3 digits using prime factors method iii, find the HCF Of any given 2 or 3 numbers using the factor method iv. iv. Interpret and solve daily life activities related to L.C.M and H.C.F v. solve quantitative reasoning questions related to L.C.M and H.C.F
Week: 6
Topic: Fractions and Decimals Addition and subtraction of fractions Mulfiplication and division on fractions Real life problems on fractions. Quantitative reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. add and subtract any given set of fractions. ii. multiply and divide any given set fractions -change fractions to decimals and versa ii. interpret and solve real life problems on fractions and decimals. 3/5 iii. solve problems on quantitative reasoning related to fraction
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Order of basic operation -Whole number -Fraction number -decimal
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. use basic operation in the right order ii. explain the steps involved in using order of operation
Week: 9
Topic: Scale Drawing: Objects Maps Distance
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: a. draw plane shapes according to a given scale b. apply and use scale drawing converting lengths and distances of objects in their environment with a given scale. c. interpret and solve real life problems on scale drawing.
Week: 10
Topic: Approximation and Estimation i. Whole numbers ii. Decimal numbers iii. Quantitafive Reasoning
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. round up whole numbers to the nearest ten, hundred and thousand ii. round up decimal numbers ii. solve quantitative reasoning on approximation
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION/PROJECT
Objectives: Pupilsshould be able to: Revise and put into practice all what they learnt in first term topics
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: 
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: 
