###Christian Religious Studies | Primary/Basic 2 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: REVISION The power of Jesus (Contd.)
Objectives: By the end or the lesson, pupils should be able to: I. Define power ii. Narrate the story of Mary Magdalene iii. Explain the story learnt from the story iv. Identify other people whose sins were forgiven by Jesus v. State the importance of forgivcncss of sins in our Christian live
Week: 2
Topic: Jesus teaching on the Kingdom of God
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define parables ii. List types of parable iii. Narrate the stories or parables illustrating the Kngdom of God
Week: 3
Topic: Jesus teaching n the kingdom of God
Objectives: By the end oftle lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain be parable of the sower and the ten virgins ii. Mention the lessons in the parables iii. State the importance of these lessons iv. List various tHings we should do in preparation for the kingdom of God
Week: 4
Topic: The fall of man
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define the term creation ii. Narrate the account of how God created Adam and Eve iii. Identify the differences between the creation of Adam and Eve and other creations
Week: 5
Topic: The fall of man
Objectives: By end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: 1.Define ühe following terms i. Disobedience ii. Punishment 2. Explain the disobedience of Adam and Eve 3. Discuss the punishment God gave to Adam, Eve and the Serpent
Week: 6
Topic: Plan of salvation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define salvation ii. Narrate God’s promise of salvation iii. State the Importance of salvation
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Plan of salvation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Give the definition of obedience & faith 2. Explain how Abraham demonstrated his faith and obedience. 3. Enumerate the things promised to Abraham. 4. Discuss the rewards of obedience
Week: 9
Topic: Plan of salvation (contd.)
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Narrate the story of the birth of Jacob ii. Explain how Jacob cheats his brother and father iii. Discuss Jacob’s dream and Bethel; iv. State the blessings promised to acob
Week: 10
Topic: Plan of salvation (contd.)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Narrate the story of Joseph and Moses ii. Discuss Joseph’s dreams iii. Explain the events that led to the release of the Israelites from Egypt iv. Describe the events of the crossing or the Red sea
Week: 11-12
Topic: Recap &Examinmon
Objectives: Recap &Examinmon
