###Christian Religious Studies | Primary/Basic 2 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: REVISION Prayer position i. Standing ii. Kneeling iii. Prostrating iv. Lying down v. Sitting
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. List different positions Christians could take while praying ii. Name people in the Biblc that prayed in the different positions iii. State possible reasons why people pray in these different positions
Week: 2
Topic: The power of prayer
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Define power 2. Identify Bible evidences of the power of prayer 3. Mention people in the Bible that prayed
Week: 3
Topic: The power of prayer
Objectives: By end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Mention something that can hinder our prayers ii. State what they asked for in their prayers iv. Explain how God answered their prayers
Week: 4
Topic: The Early life of Jesus
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Narate the birth ofJesus ii. Explain the massage of the angel to Joseph iii. Name the gifts presented to Jesus by the three wise men
Week: 5
Topic: Toe early life of Jesus
Objectives: By end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Explain the presentation of Jesus in the temple 2. List the names of people who were at the presentation of Jesus in the temple 3. State what Simeon said at the temple at the presentation of Jesus
Week: 6
Topic: Jesus preparation for His ministry
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. define ministry 2. the events that prepared Jesus for Ministry 3. Explain the baptism of Jesus Chnst
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Jesus preparation for His ministry
Objectives: By the end orthc lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Define temptation 2. Describe the temptation of Jesus 3. Mention the names of Jesus disciple 4. Discuss the significance of Jesus calling the 12 to be His disciples
Week: 9
Topic: The power of Jesus i. Calming the sea ii. Feeding of five thousand people iii. The great catch of fishes iv. Jesus turned water into wine
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Narnte the eveny that show the power of Jesus 2. Explain why Jesus helped the people in the events 3. Discuss importance of obedience as illustrated in the geat catch of fishes 4. Discuss the turning of water into wine
Week: 10
Topic: The power of Jesus
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupis should be able to; 1. Discuss the more powers of Jesus e.g. Power over evil, diseases and death 2. Narrate the stories of the paralized man whom Jesus healed 3. Name people in the Bible who Jesus raised from die dead 4. State the significance of Jesus healing raising from die dead, power over sin and death
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12&13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
