###Christian Religious Studies | Primary/Basic 2 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: 
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Jesus the man of prayer
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Identify Jesus as a man of prayer 2. State the reasons why Jesus prayed 3. Mention instances in their lives when they ought to pray
Week: 3
Topic: Jesus the man of prayer (Contd.)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Explain the importance of prayers In the life of a Christian. 2. State the significance of prayer in the life of Jesus 3. Use passages from the Bible to explain the instances when and why Jesus prayed.
Week: 4
Topic: Jesus teachings on prayer
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Discuss Jesus teaching on prayer 2. Describe bow Jesus taught us to pray 3. Recite the Lord’s prayer
Week: 5
Topic: Jesus teachings on prayer
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Discuss die value of constancy in prayer 2. Describe right attitude to prayer 3. Explain the reasons Jesus asked us to pray.
Week: 6
Topic: Types of prayer i. Intersessory ii. Thanksgivng iii. Confession of sin iv. Petition v. Supplication
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Define prayer 2. list wpes of prayer 3. Enumerate some of the things to pray for
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Types of prayer i. Petition prayer ii. Praise and worship iii. Supplication
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, puplls should be able to: 1. Narrate major way we can communicate to God 2. List types of prayers 3. Explain why Christians pray
Week: 9
Topic: Forms of Prayer i. Verbalizing ii. Meditation iii. Adoration iv.Groaning
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Descnbe what prayer is 2. mention the different forms of prayer 3. state benefit of prayer
Week: 10
Topic: Forms of Praycr
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should bc able to: i. Explain the different forms of prayer ii. Identify people in the Bible that prayed iii. Statc reasons why people pray the different forms of prayer
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
