###Security Education | Primary/Basic 2 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of First term’s work
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: provide correct answers to the evaluation questions given.
Week: 2
Topic: Preventive Measures: Involvement of Security Agents
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention some security in Nigeria ii. identify logos of each security agent e.g Police, NSCDC, NDLEA, Nigeria Immigration etc
Week: 3
Topic: Preventive Measures: Tips on Being Security Alert
Objectives: By the end of this lesson pupils should be able to: i. identify necessary skills needed in time of danger. ii. familiarize with Security tips during danger
Week: 4
Topic: Preventive Measures: Tips on how to Avoid Relating with Stranger
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: (I) identifr stranger in their environment. (ii) explain what to do when dealing with a stranger
Week: 5
Topic: Identification of Security Agencies: Police
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: (l) identify Nigeria Police with their Uniform. (ii) outline the functions of the Nigeria Police
Week: 6
Topic: Introduction of security agencies – Federal Road Safety Corps(FRSC) – Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA)
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify the FRSC and LASTMA with their uniform respectively ii. differentiate the function of FRSC and LASTMA.
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Identification of security agencies -NAFDAC and NDLEA
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: I. identify the full meaning of NAFDAC and NDLEA ii. differentiate the functions of the NAFDAC and the NDLEA
Week: 9
Topic: Identification of Security Agencies: State Security Service (SSS) and Nigeria Security Civil Defense Corps NSCDC
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. describe the state security service (SSS) and Nigeria Security Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) ii. explain ffe functions of the SSS and the NSCDC
Week: 10
Topic: Identification of Security Agencies: The Military
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. identify different armed forces in Nigeria e.g. army, navy and air force ii. outline the functions of each Nigerian armed forces
Week: 11
Topic: Nigerian Prison Service
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils shouldbe able to: i. identify the Nigerian Prison service officer ii. outline the functions of the Nigerian Prison Service
Week: 12
Topic: REVISON
Objectives: REVISON
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
