###None | Primary/Basic 4 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: -Introduction to Neighborhood security, -Meaning of Neighborhood.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) define neighborhood, (ii) identify things that make up a neighborhood.
Week: 2
Topic: Types of Neighborhood
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) group the types of neighborhood e g. Villages, street, compound, school, areas, homes, churches, mosques etc, (ii) identify name of street in their neighborhood.
Week: 3
Topic: Types of Neighborhood (Contd.)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) classify the types of neighborhood they have e.g. people living next door, people whose activities will affect us, school mates etc. (ii) differentiate the good neighborhood from the bad ones.
Week: 4
Topic: Strangers in the neighborhood
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: (i)describe a stranger, (ii) examine the precautionary measures on personal security, (iii) identify strangers in their neighborhood e.g. people loitering about in the neighborhood, scavengers, hawkers etc.
Week: 5
Topic: Suspicious movement
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) describe suspicious movement, (ii) examine people walking about in the neighborhood aimlessly.
Week: 6
Topic: Types of suspicious movement
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) identify activities that can be considered as suspicious movement e.g. peeping into other people window etc, (ii) roaming about
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Reporting suspicious movements
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) identify who to report suspicious movements to e.g. parents, adult, teacher etc, (ii) outline ways to raise alarm over suspicious movements.
Week: 9
Topic: Consequences of not reporting suspicious activities/movement
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) write the consequences of failure to report suspicious movements. (ii) mention the right person to report to, e.g. Uniform men or security men
Week: 10
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 12-13
Topic: REVISION & EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION & EXAMINATION
