###None | Primary/Basic 3 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Elements of Security: – Confidentiality – Integrity – Authenticity – Availability
Objectives: By the end of dis lesson pupils should be able to: i.Explain, elements of security ii. Give examples of elements of good security
Week: 2
Topic: Elements of Security Integrity
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of integrity. ii. Discuss why integrity is a vital element of security
Week: 3
Topic: Elements of Security: Confidentiality
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i Describe confidentiality ii. Illustrate the importance of confidentiality
Week: 4
Topic: Element of Security. Authenticity
Objectives: Bythe end of this lesson, pupils should be able to i.Explain authenticity ii. Outline the importance of authenticity
Week: 5
Topic: Elements of Security: Availability
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Describe availability ii. Discuss the importance of availability
Week: 6
Topic: Empathy
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson, pupils should be able to; i. Explain the meaning of empathy ii. Discuss the necessity for empathy in human relations
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Partnering with Key Security Department e.g
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i.Identify the key security department Army, Police, FRSC, LASTMA. ii. Enumerate the importance of partnering with the key security department
Week: 9
Topic: Elements of Security Creativity in Sharing Information
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Provide helpful information or evidence needed on any matter. ii. Recognize the proper channel to share the information with the security agents
Week: 10
Topic: Audio Awareness -Materials in Security
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be ablc to i. explain audio awareness materials ii. Highlight the importance of audio materials
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
