###Security Education | Primary/Basic 3 | Third Term
Week: 1.0
Topic: Revision of Last Term’s Work
Objectives: 
Week: 2.0
Topic: Avoiding Criminal Behaviour
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Identify ways to avoid involving in crime.
Week: 3.0
Topic: Anti- Social Behavior (ASB) e.g. Aggressive behavior, Violence, Racism
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Describe anti- social behavior in the society. ii. Discuss the effects ofantisocial behavior in the society
Week: 4.0
Topic: Violence offers e.g. Murder: Rape, Robbery, Man Slaugher
Objectives: By the end of this leson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain violence ii. Give examples of some violence offences in be society
Week: 5.0
Topic: Solution to road accident
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Describe road accident ii. Proffer solution to road accident
Week: 6.0
Topic: Sexual Offences
Objectives: Bythe end ofthis lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Describe sexual offences ii. Itemize some sexual offences
Week: 7.0
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8.0
Topic: Avoiding Criminal Behaviour e.g.Theft
Objectives: By the end ofthis lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain theft ii. Describe actions that could be referred to as theft
Week: 9.0
Topic: Avoiding peer pressure
Objectives: By the end ofthis lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Describe peer pressure ii. Identify the behavior that could be the result of peer pressure
Week: 10.0
Topic: Avoiding Criminal Behavior e.g. Gang
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Describe gang ii. Outline the characteristics of a gang
Week: 11.0
Topic: Contentment as an instrument of avoiding criminal behaviour
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain contentment ii. Discuss the Characteristics of satisfaction
Week: 12.0
Topic: Enlightenment on Good Family Life
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Give the characteristics of a good family life ii. Analyze the advantages of a good family life.
Week: 13.0
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
