###Security Education | Primary/Basic 5 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Introduction to personnal security – Sources of treat to personal securty
Objectives: By he end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) Explain the term personal security, (ii) halyses at least 3 sources of threat to personal security e.g. rogue security’, employees, insiders, social media, natural disasters etc.
Week: 2
Topic: Types of personal security
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) understand the concept of danger, (ii) Classify the types of personal security e.g. home, on the street, while travelling etc,
Week: 3
Topic: Importance of personal security
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (1) mention precaution tips on personal security, (2) state the importance of personal security, (i) keeping yourself safe/ personal protection/ defense, (ii) keeping your home safe, (iii) feeling safe in your community, (iv) quick medical assistance etc.
Week: 4
Topic: General Safety Rule
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (1) Identify parts of their body not to be touched by stranger or people, (2) develop these general personal safety rules which include, (i) know your name, home address and parent phone number, (ii) Do not eat anytiing given to you by a stranger, (iii) Do not walk off the road alone, (iv) Never go anywhere with a stranger, (v) No one is allowed to touch our bod etc.
Week: 5
Topic: General safety rules (Contd.)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (1) state the consequences of keeping a bad friend(s) (2)describe these general safety rules for children, (i) playing or experimenting with fire is not allowed, (ii) If you get lost, stay where you are, (iii) Do not share addressof parents’ phone number with anyone except in emergency situation, (iv) do not climb the fence etc.
Week: 6
Topic: Roles of the school in the security of the pupils
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to (1) Assess the roles of the school in ensuring the pupils’ security which include; (i) School need to have appropriate security measures in place to protect the pupils, (ii) keeping a register of all pupils in the school, (iii) provide a gatehouse and a security guard, (iv) proper monitoring of the pupils movement. (2) state the importance of security in the school
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Security tips in the school
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (1) tell why information is important, (2) mention some security tips i) school compound should be fenced and gated, ii) there should be security personnel stationed at the gate; iii) clearance should be given to any visitor(s) before entering the school premises, iv) pupils should be trained on security related subject etc.
Week: 9
Topic: Security tips in the school
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. identify different clubs in the school ii. describe the importance of exit card iii.relate the topics to their environment, school and home -a security club must be formed in the school -pupils activities should be strictly monitored to prevent them from joining bad gang -pupils should not be allowed to leave the school premises at will -pupils should be discouraged from loitering
Week: 10
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: 
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: 
Week: 12-13
Topic: REVISION/EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION/EXAMINATION
