###Security Education | Primary/Basic 6 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Personal Security
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define personal security ii. Identify adults they can reach out to in times of problems iii, Tell why we need personal security
Week: 2
Topic: Types of personal Security
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Mention the types of security ii .Explain the types of security iii. Classify the categories of security
Week: 3
Topic: Importance of Personal Security
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Describe the importance of Personal Security ii. Justify the importance of Personal Security
Week: 4
Topic: Precautionary measures on personal security
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. List the precautionary measures on personal security ii. Discuss the precautionary measures on personal security iii. Analyze precautionary measures such as technology devices( camera) iv. Formulate security policies
Week: 5
Topic: Personnel to contact during emergency
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Mention the security agents to contact during emergency ii, Give examples of some personnel security to contact during emergency iii. explain the work of the security personnel
Week: 6
Topic: Emergency phone numbers
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Mention important security numbers ii. Describe the appropriate personnel to contact during emergency
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: 
Week: 8
Topic: Acting properly in the face of danger
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to 1. explain the meaning of danger 2. illustrate what to do in the face of danger 3. act properly in the face of danger 4. improve on fighting danger
Week: 9
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 10
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 12
Topic: Revision/Examination
Objectives: Revision/Examination
