###Security Education | Primary/Basic 3 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of Last Term’s Work
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Identification of Criminal Behavior
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i Describe Criminal Behavior ii. Avoid criminal behavior in school and at home
Week: 3
Topic: Cause of Crime e.g. Poverty. Parental Neglect, DrugAbuse
Objectives: By the end of this lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain the causes of crime in the society
Week: 4
Topic: Categories of Crime e.g. Personal and state
Objectives: By the end ofthis lesson, pupils should be able to: i Differentiate between the two categories of crime e.g. personal and state crime
Week: 5
Topic: Factor Affecting Criminal Behaviour
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Enumerate the factors that affect criminal behavior
Week: 6
Topic: Common Criminal Behavior
Objectives: By the end ofthis lesson, pupils should be to: i. Explain common criminal behavior ii Identify the effect of common criminal behavior in the society
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Common Criminal Bchaviour: Examination Malpractice
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of examination malpractice ii. Outline the causes of examination malpractice
Week: 9
Topic: Preventive Measures of Common Crimes, Primary Prevention
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Analyze the ways to prevent common crimes
Week: 10
Topic: -Preventive Measure of Common Crimes -create, Implement and monitor a national security
Objectives: By the end ofthis lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Create and implement policy that helps to monitor a national security
Week: 11
Topic: Preventive measures against theft III -Seek international responds to global crimes
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to; i. Describe theft ii. Indicate the preventive measures that can be taken against theft
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
