###Security Education | Primary/Basic 4 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Introduction to neighborhood security -meaning of neighborhood security
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) define neighborhood security, (ii) list the aims and objectives of neighborhood security, (iii) explain the importance of neighborhood security
Week: 2
Topic: Neighborhood crimes and prevent tips
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) explain the meaning of crime, (ii) cite some examples of crimes in the neighborhood e.g. stealing, sexual harassment etc. (iii) state tips on the prevention of crime in the neighborhood
Week: 3
Topic: Keeping neighborhood safe and clean
Objectives: By the end of the lesson. pupils should be able to: (i) explain tie meaning of safety and deanliness, (ii) analyses some safety precautions e.g. to be observant etc, (iii) list the various ways of keeping tie neighborhood safe/clean.
Week: 4
Topic: Meaning ocf danger
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: (i) define the term danger, (ii) classify the types of danger in the society e.g.physical, emotional, spiritual etc, (iii) generate some measure in curtaining danger or dangerous acts.
Week: 5
Topic: Crimes and Criminal behaviour
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. describe the effect of crime ii. cite some criminal behaviours of people in the neighbourhood e.g vandalism, stealing etc.
Week: 6
Topic: Avoiding dangerous places and peoples
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) identify dangerous places in the neighborhood, (ii) identify dangerous people in the society e.g. thieves, rapists, kidnappers, etc and other undesirable elements
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Types of neighborhood security
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: (i) identify types of neighborhood security personnel e.g. local guards, vigilante groups, neighborhood watch, Lagos State Neighborhood Safety Corps etc, (ii) formulate tips and ways of relating with security personnel in the society
Week: 9
Topic: Types of neighborhood security (contd) -functions of the different agents
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. highlight different types of neighborhood e.g. local guards (OPC), vigilante groups, ii) state the function of different groups mentioned.
Week: 10
Topic: Types of neighborhood security (Contd) -neighborhood watch – Lagos neighborhood safety corps (LNSC)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. state the functions of neighborhood watch, ii. examine the activities of the LNSC iii. Assess the functions of LNSC
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
