###Security Education | Primary/Basic 6 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: REVISION OF 2ND TERM WORK
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Meaning of personal security management
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. define the meaning of personal security management
Week: 3
Topic: Types of crime
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. define crime ii. list the types of crime in the society iii. explain each crime iv. mention examples of various crimes mentioned
Week: 4
Topic: Punishment for various crimes -Theft -Rape -Impersonation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. mention the punishment for various crimes e.g. theft, rape, impersonation etc 2. describe the punishment attached to each crime
Week: 5
Topic: Punishment for crimes e.g -production of adulterated foods (food fraud) -fake drugs
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. cite the punishment for production adulterated food 2. describe the punishment for dealing in fake drugs
Week: 6
Topic: Punishment for -Bribery and corruption -Embezzlement -Extorsion
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. list the punishment for bribery and corruption 2. describe the punishment for embezzlement 3. identify the punishment for extorsion
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Punishment for -Fake pretense -Fraud -Burglary
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. explain the punishment for false pretense, fraud and burglary
Week: 9
Topic: Punishment for -Advance fee fraud(419) -Money laundering -Terrorism -Forgery
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. identify the punishment for advance fee fraud, money laundering, terrorism and forgery
Week: 10
Topic: Economic crime
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. define economic crime ii. give examples of economic crime
Week: 11-12
Topic: REVISION/EXAMINATION
Objectives: 
