###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 2 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of Last Term’s Work
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Drugs
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of drugs ii. List emmples of drugs iii. Classify drugs into legal and illegal
Week: 3
Topic: Categories of drugs legal drugs & illegal drugs
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: 1. Categorize drugs into legal and illegal drugs 2 List examples of legal drugs 3. List examples of illegal drugs
Week: 4
Topic: Drug abuse , meaning and types
Objectives: pupils should be able to: I. Explain the meaning of drugs abuse. 2. Mention types of drug abuse 3. List examples of drugs that can be abused
Week: 5
Topic: Effects of drug abuse
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain the effects of drug abuse ii. Mention symptoms of drug abuse
Week: 6
Topic: Ways of preventing drug abuse
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: 1. Explain ways of preventing drug abuse 2. Mention symptoms of drug abuse
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Harmful substances -meaning and examples of harmful substance
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: 1. Explain the meaning of harmful substance 2. Mention examples of harmful substance 3. Explain the reason why people take harmful substance
Week: 9
Topic: Ways of preventing intake of harmful substance
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, people should be able to i.explain ways of preventing intake of harmful substance ii. mention symptoms of taking harmful substance
Week: 10
Topic: Danger and Insecurity -meaning -sources of danger and insecurity
Objectives: By the end ofthis lesson, people should be able to i. define danger and insecurity ii.mention sources of danger and insecurity iii. mention sources of danger and insecurity in the school and in the environment
Week: 11
Topic: How to keep away from danger
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain how to keep away from danger ii. Mention emergency numbers in Nigeria (767, 112)
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
