###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 5 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Other people in the family’ – Other members of family and how they relate to us -Obligations of the members of the family
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Name other members of our family 2. Explain mw they related to us 3. List obligations of the ræmbers of the family
Week: 2
Topic: Unity in cultural diversity -meaning of culture diversity and unity -culture as a people’s way of life -customs and tradition -chargeable customs
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define culture diversity and unity 2- Describes culture as people’s way of life 3. Explain customs and taditjon 4. Name retainable custom
Week: 3
Topic: Process of changing culture and difference – Reason for change – Process of changing culture – Nigerian language – Using maps to indicate language
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to,’ i. Outline reasons for changing cultures ii. Analyze maps to indicate languages
Week: 4
Topic: Marriage customs and practices -Steps in selecting marriage partners -Purpose of writing or visiting -Values that are relevant to selection of marriage partners
Objectives: By tho end of tho lesson pupils should be able to: i. Describe steps in selecting marriage partners ii. Explain purpose of writing or visiting iii. Outline values that are relevant to selection of marriage partners
Week: 5
Topic: Roles played by families -Consequence – The roles of families and other providing useful advice -Unhealthy marriage practice (consequences)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Lists the roles of families ii. Describes how the roe is being played by the families iii. Identify unhealthy mariage practice
Week: 6
Topic: Responsible parenthood -Who are parents -Duties of parents – Characteristic of responsible parenthood
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Explain who are parents 2. Describe duties of parents 3.Outlines characteristics of responsible parenthood
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Problems of parenthood STIS/STDS/AIDS -Meaning of STDS/HIV/AIDS -Types of STDS -Effects of STDS/HIV/AIDS – Responsible sexual behaviour – Values relevant
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1.Define STDS/HIV/AIDS 2.List types of STDS 3.Identify effects of STD/HIV/AIDS 4. Describe responsible sexual behaviour 5. Explain values relevant
Week: 9
Topic: Traditional marriage – Meaning of traditional marriage – Modem marriage – Main features of traditional marriage – Values of traditional marriage
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define traditional marriage 2. Describe modern marriage 3. Lists main factors of traditional marriage 4. Outline values of traditional marriage
Week: 10
Topic: Modern Marriage -Main feature of Christian marriage -Values of Christian, Islamic and marriages by ordenance -Main features of Muslim marriage -Main features of marriage by ordinance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. examine main features of christian marriage 2. identify values of christian and islamic marriage 3. outline main features of muslim marriage 4. list main features of marriage by ordinance
Week: 11
Topic: Religion and Social Belief -Concept of religion -Types of religion -Religion Intellorance -Problems of religion intellorance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. explain concept of religion 2. list types of religious intelorance 3. describe religious intelorance 4. outline problem of religious intelorance
Week: 12-13
Topic: REVISION/EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION/EXAMINATION
