###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 4 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of Last Terms Work! -Citizenship
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define citizenship 2. Describe qualification of a citizen e.g. it can be by birth or by application 3. Identify the right of a citizen
Week: 2
Topic: The concept of govemment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Explain what is government 2. Define the type of government e.g. Federal, State and Local govemment 3. Describe the 3 items of government
Week: 3
Topic: The Concept of Local Government
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to. 1. Describe the concept of Local government, 2. Menton the importance of Local government 3, Enumerate the benefit of Local govemment people
Week: 4
Topic: Problems and soluåon of Local govemment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Identify tie problems of Local govemment 2. Itemize the soluåon to the problems mentoned above 3, Recall the problems and suggested solution of local government
Week: 5
Topic: The concept of state government
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define the concept of State government 2. Discover who controls the public affair of the state and what is the motto of your state 3. Locate the importance of a state government e.g building of roads, provision of electricity etc.
Week: 6
Topic: Seperation of Power and Function
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. mebtion problems of power sharing e.g corruption ii. discuss how to promote cooperation between the state and local government e.g maintain peace and order in the state etc
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: 
Week: 8
Topic: Division of Labour
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define discussion of labour 2. Describe agricultural industry 3. List out types of agriculture. i.e. Animal production, animal husbandry, fishery and forest
Week: 9
Topic: Why division of labour is necessary in agricultural industry
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: I. Identify why division of labour is necessary in agriculture e.g. more acres can be cultivated and maintained etc. 2. Identify the problems of agriculture labour e.g. lack of capital 3. Investigate the ways to solve the problems of agricultural indust
Week: 10
Topic: Saving
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define of savings 2. Traditional way and modem way of saving 3. Identify the types of bank i.e. Commercial banks 4. Discuss how to open bank account i.e. passport photograph, particulars of the erson
Week: 11
Topic: Employment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should bo able to: i. Define employment ii. Identify reasons for employment iii. identify reasons for employment. iv. Descnbe unemployment and list out some problems that leads to unemployment
Week: 12
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
