###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 1 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Meaning of social studies -The study of man and how his problems are solved in the environment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. explain the meaning of Social Studies; ii. list at least two problems of man; iii. state how the problems listed above can be solved.
Week: 2
Topic: Family Meaning of a family
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of a family and mention some members of the family
Week: 3
Topic: Family -Types of family. -Structure of a nuclear family.
Objectives: By the end of the class, pupils should be able to: i. identify types of family; ii. explain Nuclear family.
Week: 4
Topic: Extended Family
Objectives: Pupils should be able to; i. Explain types of family, ii. Mention the members of an extended family.
Week: 5
Topic: Qualities of a good family. – Honesty -Contentment -Discipline -Obedience
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of; -Honesty -Contentment -Discipline -Obedience
Week: 6
Topic: -Culture -Meaning -Types
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Define the meaning of culture; ii. Explain the meaning of culture.
Week: 7
Topic: MIDTERM TEST/BREAK
Objectives: MIDTERM TEST/BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Values that show good morals in our society -Meaning of morals
Objectives: Pupils should be able to i. Define morals; ii. explain with examples the values which show good morals eg. a pupil to rise up for older person to sit down.
Week: 9
Topic: Values that show good morals in our society examples of morals that show what is right e.g. -Respect -Loyalty -Kindness -Honesty, etc
Objectives: By the end of the lessons, pupils should be able: i. list the attributes of good morals and demonstrate them in school, home and society.
Week: 10
Topic: Values that show Bad Morals in our society -Examples of morals to show what is wrong e.g stealing bullying, fighting, lying etc.,
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. list at least five bad morals in the society; ii. state the consequences of bad morals and how to curb it.
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
