###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 6 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of Last term examination
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Resources uülization – Importance of natural resources – Overutilization of natural resources – Danger of overutilization -Underutilization of natural resources -Problems of underutilization of natural resources
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Appreciate the importance of natural resources to the country 2. Describe overutilization of resources and itemize the implications of overutilization of natural resources 3. Describe underutilization of resources and mention the danger of underutilization of resources
Week: 3
Topic: Labour Force: -Meaning -Trading the populatim to be healthy and productive -Implication of poor health on Labour
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define labour force 2. Recognize ways of training the population to be healthy and productive 3. Mention the implication of poor health on labour force
Week: 4
Topic: Transport and Communution Water and Air transportation (meaning and examples) -Problems and solution of Air and Water transportation in Nigeria -Communication system in Nigeria (meaning and examples) -When and how to use means of telecommunication -Why telecommunication do not work
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1Describe water and Air transportation in Nigeria 2. Pinpoint problems and solution to Air and Water transportation in Nigeria 3. Describe communication and give examples in Nigeria, when and how they are used 4. Troubleshoot in communication system
Week: 5
Topic: Gender discrimination -Meaning and areas of discrimination (examples) -Consequences of gender discrimination -Solution to gender discrimination
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Describe and give examples of areas of discrimination. 2. Itemize consequences of gender discrimination 3. Suggest ways of curbing gender discrimination in the society
Week: 6
Topic: Group conflicts and cooperation – Meaning of conflicts and cooperation -Importanæ of communication cooperaion – Contolling and avoiding confiict in our community -Internati0nal conflicts and organization meaning and causes.
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Describe conflicts and cooperation. 2. State the importance of communication and cooperation 3. Proper ways of controlling and avoiding conflicts in our community 4. Describe conflicts in the organization highlighting the causes
Week: 7
Topic: Mid Term Break
Objectives: 
Week: 8
Topic: Intemational organization -Meaning and examples – Efforts of intemational bodies at solving the problems posed by COVID-19, HIV/AIDS and STDS
Objectives: By the end of tho lesson pupils should be ablo to: 1. Describe intemational organizations (with examples) 2. Pinpoint efforts intematlonal bodies at solving problems posed by COVID-19, HIV/AIDS and STDS.
Week: 9
Topic: Peace Education -Meaning of peace – Characteristics of tolerance – Attributes of Cooperation -Value that promote peace, – National Unity meaning and symbols of National Unity
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Describe peace as oppose to conflict 2. Identify characteristics of tolerance and cooperation 3. Express value that promote peace in the community 4. Describe and mention symbols of national unity
Week: 10
Topic: Concepts of drug and drug abuse – Meaning of drug and drug abuse – Examples of drugs often abused – Consequence of drug abuse
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Describe drug and drug abuse 2. Mention examples of drugs often abused 3. Discuss the consequence of drug abuse
Week: 11
Topic: Synthetic and naturally occurring drugs Meaning and examples Solution to drugs
Objectives: By tho end of the lesson pupils should be ablo to: 1. Describe synthetic and naturally occurring drugs 2. Compare and contrast between the synthetic and naturally occurring drugs 3. Suggest solution to drug abuse
Week: 12-13
Topic: EXAMIANTION
Objectives: 
