###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 3 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of First Terms Work
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Meaning of Drug Abuse
Objectives: Pupil should be able to; i. Define drug and drug abuse ii. List examples of drugs that can be abused iii. Mention the right people to administer drug
Week: 3
Topic: Ways of knowing someone who has abuse drugs
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. identify people who abuse drugs ii. Mention symptoms of taking excess drugs iii. Explain importance of taken right dosage of drugs
Week: 4
Topic: Effects of Drug Abuse
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. State effects of drug abuse ii. Explain methods of abusing drugs (e.g. smoking cigarette) iii. Identify drugs that should be taken with strict supervision of medical personnel or parents or guardian
Week: 5
Topic: Ways of helping people who has abused drugs
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Mention ways of helping people who abuse drugs ii. Explain signs of identifying people who abuse drugs iii. Discuss the appropriate authority to report to incase of drug abuse
Week: 6
Topic: Meaning of illness
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of illness ii. List major causes of common illness in our society iii. Mention examples of common illness in our community(Malaria, Typhoid, diarrhea, dysentery etc)
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Common illness in the community
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Identify common illness in our community. ii. State preventive measures against common illness in our community iii. Mention importance of living in a clean envimnment
Week: 9
Topic: Symptoms of common illnesses in the community
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Mention the symptoms of common illnesses in our community such as (malaria, typhoid) ii. Explain immunization as a means o preventing some illnesses iii. Discuss importance of sanitation
Week: 10
Topic: Causes of common illness: Dysentery
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: 1. Identify causes of common illness such as dysentery etc in our community
Week: 11
Topic: Prevention of common diseases
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Mention ways of preventing common illness in the society ii. List ways of providing good hygiene to prevent common illness in our community
Week: 12
Topic: 
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: 
