###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 5 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Housing -Types of houses Nigerians live in -Provision and acquisition of house
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Outline the types of houses Nigeria live in. 2. Describe necessary provision of houses 3. Identity means of acquiring houses in Nigeria
Week: 2
Topic: Features of adequate – Housing – Qualities of a goal house – Difference in the housing needs of urban and rural settlement
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Outline qualities of a good house 2. Draw that shed roof and mud house or iron roofing sheets 3. Draw a complete 4. Describe differences in the housing needs of urban and rural settlement
Week: 3
Topic: Population and – Meaning of population Relationship between population and availability – Reasons everybody does not own house in Nigeria -Solution to housing shortage
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define population 2. Outline the relationship between population and available numbers of houses 3, Explain in reasons everybody does not own house in Nigeria 4. Give solution to housing shortage
Week: 4
Topic: Personal hygiene and physical development -Whatis personal hygiene and physical development – Characteristics of physical development – Factor tiat can under grow in children
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define personal hygiene and physical development 2. Outline characteristics or physical development 3.Write factors that can hinder growth in children
Week: 5
Topic: Physical fitness and population – Things to do to keep our body physically fit – Characteristics of household population and effect on personal hygiene
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1.Outline things to do to keep our body physically fit 2. Describe characteristics of household population 3. Explain characteristics of household population and effect on personal hygiene
Week: 6
Topic: Drug abuse – Concept of drug abuse – Factors contributing to drug abuse – Effects of abuse of stimulation – Sources of drugs
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Explain concept of drug abuse 2. List factors contributing to drug abuse 3. Describe effects of stimulation 4. Outline sources of drugs
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Prevention of drug abuse and life coping skills – How do we prevent drug abuse – Health promotion behaviour – Nongovemment organization – Moral responsibility – Conse uences
Objectives: By the end ofthe lesson pupils should be able to: 1. List how we prevent drug abuse 2. explain health promotion behaviour 3. Outline non-govemment organization 4. Describe moral responsibility 5. Outline non-govemmental organization
Week: 9
Topic: Pollution – Meaning of pollution -Sources and causes of air pollution
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define pollution 2, Outline sources of air pollution 3. Describe causes of land pollution
Week: 10
Topic: Natural disastor -Meaning of natural and unnatural disaster -Causes of natural disaster – Effect of natural disastor on life and property
Objectives: By tho end of tho losson pupllg should bo oblo to: I. Define natural disaster 2. Explain unnatural disaster 3. List causes of natural disaster 4. Doscrlbe effect of natural disaster on life and proporty
Week: 11
Topic: Mechanized agriculture – Concept of mechanized agriculture – Agricultural mechanized -Problems of mechanized agriculture -Modem agricultural technology to fishing and farmlnq
Objectives: By tho end of tho lesson pupils should bo ablo to: 1, Explain tho concept of mechanized agriculture 2. Lists agriculturo machines 3. Outline problems of mechanlzod agriculture 4. Describe modern agricultural technology to fishing and farming
Week: 12-13
Topic: REVISION/EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION/EXAMINATION
