###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 6 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: External Influence on Nigeria life: -Language -Family system -Behaviour of family members -Food -Music and Education – Working mothers or parents -Influence of religion on Nigeria family life – Marriage pattem (relationship between members -General behaviour of family
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Describe how the external influence on Nigeria family life in terms of: Family system, language, behaviour, family members, food, music and education 2. Explain how religion influence Nigerian family We; marriage pattern, relationship between family members general behaviour of family members 3. Discuss the influence of working parents on the Nigeria family life. Inadequate attention to the children, use of baby seaters putting children in day care. More in week 2
Week: 2
Topic: The influence of working parents on the Nigerian Family – Use of body sitters – Putting children in the day care institution -More income is generated for the family
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Describe working parents from the above
Week: 3
Topic: Inter Marriage. Meaning of -Intermarriage – Intra ethonic marriage – Advantages(inter and intra ethnic) – Disadvantages (inter and intra ethnic marriage) -Value that foster intermarriage (affection, tolerance, unity, cooperation etc)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain intermarriage and intra marriage ii. List the gains of inter and intra ethnic marriage iii. Mention the disadvantages of inter and intra ethnic marriage iv. Identify values promoting intermarriage
Week: 4
Topic: Marital Failure
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Explain marital failures ii Itemize reason for marital failure iii. Identify sexual behaviours that promote STD/HIVIAIDS
Week: 5
Topic: – Some foreign cultures that are affecting our values and cultures (dress, foods, religions ractice -Advantages and disadvantages of foreign cultures (advantages- better ways of doing things, education, health etc.) (disadvantages, destruction of traditional value, immorality, violence etc)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i.Mention some foreign cultures that are affecting our values and culture ii. Discuss the advantages of foreign cultures on our culture iii. Itemize the disadvantages of foreign culture on our culture
Week: 6
Topic: Religious Intolerance in Nigeria. – Concept of religious intolerance – Causes of religious intolerance – Control of religious intolerance
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Describe the concepts of Religious intolerance 2. Explain causes of religious intolerance in Nigeria 3. Suggest ways of controlling religious intolerance in Nigeria
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: 
Week: 8
Topic: -Labour and Trade union -Concept of Labour – Example of labour and trade union in Nigeria
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: -Describe the concept of labour and trade union -Give example of labour and trade union
Week: 9
Topic: Wages and income distribution -Concept of wages and income distribution -Relationship between the income and standard of living -Factors determining wages and income -Causes of wages increase -Aspect of income management (household, needs, savings, investments, charity, reserve etc)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. discuss the concept of wages and income distribution ii. itemize the relationship between income and standard of living iii. explain factor determining wages and income iv. list the causes of wage increase v. identify factor in income management
Week: 10
Topic: Employment -Employment -Unemployment -Problrms of umemployment (drug trafficking and abuse, begging)
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. define employment and unemployment ii. discuss causes of unemployment iii. solution and causes to unemployment
Week: 11
Topic: Nigerian and Foreign made goods Examples in: -Textile-Furniture -Leather -Automobile and electronics
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. describe made in NIgeria goods ii. Foreign made goods iii. give examples on Nigeria and foreign made goods
Week: 12
Topic: Revision/Examination
Objectives: 
