###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 6 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Effect of substance abuse -Health and socio economic effects of substance abuse – Heroine -Cocaine sedative drugs – Mandrax -Valium
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Discuss health and socio economic effects of drugs (Cocaine & Heroine) (chills, cramps, panic, houses, lack of appetite and loss of weight, increased in blood pressure,stroke,loss of weight, convulsion, sudden death 2. Health and socio economic effects of sedative drugs (mandrax and valium) (inco-ordination, anxiety, poor school performance, truancy, general weakness
Week: 2
Topic: Modes of drug use and consequences -Effects of normal use of drugs -Consequences of excessive use of drugs -Factors causing drug abuse behaviour
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Itemize effects of normal use of drugs (e.g desired effects) 2.List effects of excessive use of drugs (damage to body organs or death) 3. Discuss factors responsible for drugs abuse (desire for pleasure and excitement, pear pressure, availability of drug in the environment
Week: 3
Topic: Sources of drugs supply and traficking -Registered -Unregistered
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1.Distinguish between the various sources of dry supply and trafficking (registered and unregistered) 2. Mention example of sources of drug supply and trafficking (registered – pharmaceutical industries, hospital, patent medicine store, hotel and club. 3. Unregistered – plantations traditional medicine establishments, herb seller, road side hawkers
Week: 4
Topic: Identification of abuses The treatment and effects
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Identify person involved in drug abuse (heroine and cocane excessive joy, tiny pupils, pain and shivering) 2. Sedative drugs (drunken behaviour with or without smell, tremor, convulsion) 3. Discuss ways of treatment and rehabilitation of people on drug abuse. (counseling social centre, use of sport to occupy idle time, arresting and publishing peddlers sellers
Week: 5
Topic: Prevention of drug abuse -Life saving skills -Developing positive health behaviour
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Mention life savings skill (health promotion behaviour, regular exercise, constructive play) 2. Identify and develop positive health behaviours (constructive relationship with others, avoidance of harmful drugs. More discrimination in what is consumed and choice of friends. 3. List organizations responsible for curtailing drug abuse, warfare and social centre, sport organization, NDLEA, customs (non-government-social, churches, mosque, etc.
Week: 6
Topic: Obstacle to physical development in youth
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. explain the word obstacle to physical development 2. list obstacle to physical development -poor feeding, bad habit, diseases 3. discuss solution to obstacle to physical development -good hygiene, balance diet, regular excercise, sleep and rest.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 9
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 10
Topic: Revision
Objectives: 
Week: 11-12
Topic: REVISION/EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION/EXAMINATION
