###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 2 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Scope of social studies and meaning of social studies
Objectives: Pupils should be able to i.define social studies ii. explain the scope of social studies iii.identify the areas of focus of social studies
Week: 2
Topic: Culture (meaning)
Objectives: Pupils should be able to i.Define culture ii. List things that make up a culture iii. Distinguish the culture of the three major tribes in Nigeria
Week: 3
Topic: Element of Culture
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i.Mention elements of culture ii. Compare the element of culture among the three major cultural group in Nigeria
Week: 4
Topic: The importance of culture in Nigeria
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. list and explain the important of culture in Nigeria ii.describe various ways of presenting our culture to Nigeria. iii. mention the effect of foreign on our culture
Week: 5
Topic: Food we eat in our family member
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention types of food eaten among the three major cultural groups in Nigeria. ii.mention similar food we eat together in our cultural group iii. mention the types of food eaten by other culture
Week: 6
Topic: Why we eat together
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to i. State the reason why people eat together ii. mention effect of eating as a family iii. list different types of food they eat in their family
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: The nutrient in the food we eat and their importance to growth
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to i.define nutruent and food ii. mention various nutrient gotten from the food we eat iii. list the six classes of food with examples of food on each class iv. discuss the importance of food to our growth.
Week: 9
Topic: Nutient of food we eat(contd)
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. define nutrient and food distinguish between nutrients and food ii. mention the six classes of food iii. describe the importance of food to our growth iv. menüon the nutrient derived from eating a particular food
Week: 10
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
