###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 4 | First Term
Week: 1
Topic: Living in the family
Objectives: By the end of the should be able to: 1. Explain meaning and types of family (Nuclear and Extended) 2. Identify the members of the Nuclear and Extended family 3. Identify the member of nuclear and extended family 4. Mention the importance of the famil
Week: 2
Topic: Relationship of some member of the family
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Draw the family tree 2. Identify how relate to one another e.g. Family tree 3. Itemize the benefit of the family e.g. Care and interest for one another
Week: 3
Topic: Marriage
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to: 1. Define the meaning of marriage 2. Explain the types of marriage e.g. Monogamy and Polygamy marriage 3. Mention marriage festival in Nigeria and give differences from one to the other
Week: 4
Topic: Marriage problems and solution
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Identify the problems in marriage 2. Provide solution to the problems of marriage
Week: 5
Topic: Our culture -Element of culture
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1 Explain the meaning and types of culture 2. List the element of culture 3. What are the different kinds of culture in Nigeria (Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba)
Week: 6
Topic: Culture
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Identify the different culture e.g. different dialects, difference in geographical position 2. Mention the difference in external influences 3. List the similarities in cultures e.g. Food, Dressing, Ceremony, Greetin s etc.
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: 
Week: 8
Topic: Culture
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. List outways of cultural presentation e.g. Symbol, Building Dressing and Festival 2. Pin-point and state reasons for discarding some culture e.g. ritual 3. Identify the culture to be retained e.g. respect to elders.
Week: 9
Topic: Our religion and practice
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1, Explain meaning and types of religion. 2. Identify the mode and materials used to worship in different religion practice e.g. Holy Bible, Holy Quran, candle etc.
Week: 10
Topic: Similarities in aspect of religion
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. List the similarities of each religion e.g. we all pray to God through different means, style of dressing etc. 2. Describe the aspect of religion in Nigeria 3. Display how each religion pray
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 12-13
Topic: REVISION & EXAMINATION
Objectives: 
