###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 5 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Leadership -Who is a leader -Type of leadership -How can a leader be selected -Function of political leaders -Fomation of political parties and changes -What attributes a good and bad leadership
Objectives: By tho ond of tho losson pupils should be ablo to: 1. Define a loader 2. List typos of loadorshlp 3. Describe how a leader can be solectod 4. State function of political leader
Week: 2
Topic: Organization and cooperation – Meaning of organization and co-operation -Types of organization and co-operation – Why people live together – Function of various organization and co-operation – Benefit of living together
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: I. Define organization and cooperation 2. List types of organization and cooperation 3. Explain why people live together 4. Describe function of various organization co-operation
Week: 3
Topic: Resource/preservation -What is resource preservation – Mention types of saving – Banking facilities in communities -Process of opening an account in the bank
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: i. Define resource presentation ii. List types of savings iii. Outline banking facilities in communities iv. Explain process of opening an account in the bank
Week: 4
Topic: – causes of poor savings – practice saving
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Outline causes of poor savings 2. Explain inability to manage one’s income properly 3. Identifies practice
Week: 5
Topic: Resources development -meaning of capital -ways of raising fund -sources of fund -identify the uses of fund
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to i. define ways of raising fund ii. describe source of fund iii. identify the uses of fund
Week: 6
Topic: Resources Distribution -meaning of resources -Types of resources -why resources are not evenly distributed -problems of overconcentration of industries ways of ensuring even distribution of resources
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to 1. define resources 2. list types of resources 3. explain why resources are not evenly distributed 4. outline problems of over concentration of ensuring even distribution 5. describe distribution of resources
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Employment -What is emplyment -Concept of employment and unemployment – Causes unemployment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson, pupils should be able to : 1. define employment 2. write/list concepts of employment 3. state concept of unemployment 4. describe causes of unemployment
Week: 9
Topic: Wages and income – Concept of wages and salary – Why some people eam higher salaries than others
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Explain concept of ways 2. Describe concept of salary 3. State why some people earn higher salaries than others
Week: 10
Topic: Communication – Meaning of communication – Types of electronic communication -Use of the device – Problems of some of the devices
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define communication 2. Lists types of electronic communication 3. State uses of the device 4. Explain problems of the devices
Week: 11
Topic: Transportation Studies -Meaning of transportation – Types of transportation – Forms of land transportation -Draw means of tansportation on land – Advantage of transportation – Identify the problems of land transportation -Solution to problems of transportation
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. define transportation 2. list types of transportation 3. explain form of land transportation 4. draw means of transportation
Week: 12-13
Topic: REVISION/EXAMINATION
Objectives: REVISION/EXAMINATION
