###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 4 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of Second Terms Work
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Meaning of road Accident
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils sh0Utd be able to: 1. Define road and road accidents 2. Classify roads into private drive pathways, two-lane highways, dual carriage easy and expressways 3. Describe road accidents on each classification of roads.
Week: 3
Topic: Causes of Road Accidents
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. List causes of road accidents. 2. Describe how drivers and other road users sh0uld maintain roads 3. Explain in details of road sign and their meaning
Week: 4
Topic: Effects of Road Accidents
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Mention effects of road accidents on the victim 2.Describes the damage done to the road and vehicle involved
Week: 5
Topic: Accident
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Identify solution to the road accidents 2. Mention security agents that help people at the scene of accidents
Week: 6
Topic: Meaning of First Aid
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: I, Define First Aid and Aid BOX. 2. Explain who a First Aid giver is. 3. State emergency hotlines in Nigeria. (767)
Week: 7
Topic: MID TERM BREAK
Objectives: 
Week: 8
Topic: Objects found in First Aid Box
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. List the contents of First Aid Box. 2. Explain the uses of Each contents of the First Aid Box
Week: 9
Topic: Simple First Aid treatment
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to. 1. Describe how simple first aid is applied to an accident victim 2, Give report of what has been done for the victim and call for emergency if need be. (767)
Week: 10
Topic: Security Agencies and their Primary duties
Objectives: By the end of the lesson pupils should be able to: 1. Define security 2. Mention security agents in Nigeria 3. Mention the duties of security agencies
Week: 11
Topic: REVISION
Objectives: REVISION
Week: 12
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
