###None | Primary/Basic 2 | Second Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision first term work
Objectives: Recall most of the last term’s topic and provide answers to the assessment test given
Week: 2
Topic: Meaning and importance of greeting
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to i. explain the meaning of greeting ii. state the importance of greeting iii. mention people we should greet.
Week: 3
Topic: Forms of greeting
Objectives: Pupils should be ablc to: i. mention forms of greeting e.g kneeling ,prostrating ,bowing, etc ii. identify greeting as a way of showing respect to people iii. Perform various act or forms of greeting in their culture
Week: 4
Topic: Meaning and the of environment
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Explain the meaning of environment ii. State types of environment iii. Mention things found in our environment
Week: 5
Topic: Ways of keeping our environment clean
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention ways of keeping our environment clean ii. list the tools needed to keep our environment clean iii. explain the meaning of sanitation and how often it should be done.
Week: 6
Topic: Importance of cleaning in our environment
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. mention the importance of cleanliness in our environment ii. mention the effect of dirty environment iii. mention environmental activities to be carried out in our homes and school
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Meaning of accidents Causes of accidents at home and school
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Define accidents ii. Mention causes of accidents in the schools iii. Mention causes of at home iv. Mention the danger spots at home and in the school. E.g. toilet, bath tub, kitchen, playground etc.
Week: 9
Topic: Causes cf accidents at home and in school
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: 1. Identify causes of accidents at home and in the school 2. Mention dangerous such as pin, knife, match stick
Week: 10
Topic: Effects of home and school accidents
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i.Explain the effects of home and school accidents. ii. Mention various places where accident can occur at home and in the school iii. List dangerous objects they must not play with
Week: 11
Topic: How to prevent accidents in the school and at home
Objectives: Pupils should be able to 1, Explain ways ofpreventing accidents in the school and at home 2. Mention ways of helping accident victims at home and in the school 3. Mention emergency line numbers in Nigeria e.g. (767)
Week: 12
Topic: REVISON
Objectives: REVISON
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
