###Social Studies | Primary/Basic 3 | Third Term
Week: 1
Topic: Revision of Second Terms Work
Objectives: 
Week: 2
Topic: Meaning of Road Accident
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Define road and road accidents ii. Classify roads into private drive pathways, two-lane highways, dual carriage easy and expressways iii. Describe road on each classification of roads.
Week: 3
Topic: Causes of Road Accidents
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. List causes of mad accidents. ii. Describe how drivers and other mad users should maintain mads iii. Explain in dctails of road sign and their meaning
Week: 4
Topic: Effecs of Road accident
Objectives: By the end of this lesson, pupils should be able to: i. Mention effects of road accidents on the victim ii. Discribe the damage done to the road and vehicle involved
Week: 5
Topic: Solution to Road Accident
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Identify solution to the road accidents ii. Mention security agents that help people at the scene of road accidents
Week: 6
Topic: Meaning of first aid
Objectives: Bythe end of this lesson, pupils should be able to i. Define First Aid and Aid Box ii. Explain who a First aid gver is. iii. State emergency hotlines in Nigeria (767)
Week: 7
Topic: MID-TERM BREAK
Objectives: MID-TERM BREAK
Week: 8
Topic: Objects found in First Aid Box
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. List the contents of First Aid Box. ii. Explain the uses of each contents of the first aid box
Week: 9
Topic: Simple fist aid reament
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Describe how simple first aid is applied to an accident victim ii. Give report of what has been done for the victim and call for emergency if need be. (767)
Week: 10
Topic: Security Agencies and their Primary duties
Objectives: Pupils should be able to: i. Define security ii. Mention security agents in Nigeria iii. Mention the duties of security agencies
Week: 11
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 12
Topic: Revision
Objectives: Revision
Week: 13
Topic: EXAMINATION
Objectives: EXAMINATION
